Don't bring your authentic self to work.
I want your professional self. You can
bring your authentic self to
Thanksgiving meal with your family if
you'd like to. Your authentic self is
about who? Me, me, me, me, me.
Everything is what's happening to me.
What's in it for me? Do you know that
you impact other people? You affect
other people's lives. You make the work
environment easier or more taxing.
>> Can someone learn to be a better
self-regulator of their emotions?
>> Yeah. So, I've been around former SEALs,
US Secret Service presidents, and I
learned a lot about communication,
reading people, confidence, and I'll
share these things. So, first of all,
Ebie Porus is the former US Secret
Service agent.
>> From guarding presidents to reading
liars, she now reveals the strategies
she used to make anyone respect you,
trust you, and give you what you want.
>> I've been around very confident people,
and they had a really good circle around
them in her circle. Because if you're
exposing yourself to people and
environments that are not good for you,
that will actually impact your life
negatively. You know, I always say be
careful who you try to save. Some people
will drown you. And then the other thing
I would see presidents do is they were
very good at delegating. So they didn't
need to know everything because
confident people are okay with not
knowing all the information. So your
brain is like a bathtub. The bathtub can
only hold so much water. If you keep
warding water in the bathtub, it's going
to overflow. That's your cognitive load.
My bathtub only holds the water it needs
to hold in. And another thing that the
Secret Service has taught us is that
that's really important to use your
hands because when people don't see
hands, it's a sign of untrustworthiness.
Like you can't trust them. So when you
see hands, open hands, I'm no threat.
And then there's communication skills,
manipulation, tactics, and a strategy to
make good decisions. And I will go
through them, but the two most important
things are
to my regular listeners. I know you
don't like it when I ask you to
subscribe at the start of these
conversations. I don't like saying I
don't like it being in there. None of us
like it. It's frustrating. Do you know
what's also frustrating? It's also
frustrating when I go into the back end
of the YouTube channel and I see that
56% of you that listen frequently to
this podcast haven't yet subscribed. And
so many of you don't even know that you
haven't subscribed because I see in the
comment section you say to me, you go,
"I didn't even realize I didn't
subscribe." And that actually fuels the
show. It's basically like you're making
a donation to the show. So that's why I
ask all the time because it enables us
to build and build and build and build
and we're going for the long term here.
So all I'd ask you is if you've seen
this show before and you like it, help
me, help my team here. Hit the subscribe
button and we'll continue to build this
show for you. That's my promise. Thank
you to all of you guys that do
subscribe. Means the world to me. Let's
get on with the show.
What is the overarching theme of why
people you think are drawn to your your
particular message and what part of that
message are they drawn to?
>> I get bombarded on all social media
platforms and in email and it's always
like Evie, I have this problem. Please
help me. And it can range from
I have a problem communicating to I'm in
an abusive relationship to my brother
was murdered and they're saying it's a
suicide. It's not. So I get everything.
And I think what I'm seeing is
there are a lot of people that are not
doing well.
It seems to me that people are tired of
being told that they have no control
over the outcome of their lives and no
control over the relationships. Cuz when
you tell people it's not your fault this
happened to you and it's okay that
you're this way, which it is, I think
people don't want to stay there anymore.
And so
people look to I don't have to I don't
have to be weak all the time or I don't
have to feel weak. You can have a weak
moment. It's not the same thing with
feeling fundamentally weak or insecure
or insignificant all the time and then
looking at a moment or a situation or
moments in your life and saying, "I'm
this way now because of all these things
that happened." And I think for a while
that worked. I think for a while people
were buying it because it's like it's
not your fault like you're like this.
Now this happened to you here. It's not
your fault that you don't trust people.
this happened to you here? And so
because that theme's been going on for
so long, what it does is it renders you
powerless because it's saying you're
this way because of all this other stuff
and it's not your fault. And that
translates to I have no power over it.
I'm
I'm a result of what's happened to me.
And that's a powerless state to be,
which all it does is keep suppressing
you down. So you just stay there instead
of saying you know it happened to you
okay now to where do we go from here and
it's wild because I did consultations
and mentor sessions for a window of time
and I would only do either one or three
I wouldn't do more than that because
what the most important thing I didn't
want people to rely on me it's like I'll
come in and I'll give you some
guideposts and but my goal is not to
make you reliant on me to keep coming
back to me. Three was the max I would do
with someone. No more than that.
>> Three sessions.
>> Three sessions. Three sessions. Because
my goal is if I keep you coming back to
me, then I'm not helping you. All I'm
doing is reorienting you to come to me.
I'm going to fix it for you. My goal was
always no, you have the ability. I might
need to kind of shift things around or
shake things up a little bit in your
mindset, but in the end, you are very
well capable. And most people are. They
just don't learn. They just don't know
how to trust themselves. You talked
about how using the past to diagnose
your current self by saying this
happened to me so I'm this way is almost
it's like a short-term friend in the
moment because it kind of helps you feel
heard and understood and it justifies
the way that you are but it ends up
being a long-term enemy in the context
that you're then stuck with the results
of who you are for better or for worse.
And I was thinking about myself. I was
thinking all the ways that I've like
justified who I am today using something
that happened in the past. And actually
whenever I do that it makes that
behavior even if it's the byproduct of
it is making me unhappy really hard to
change. Like it's very hard to change.
Like if I say this happened when I was a
kid and my my dad was unorganized or
whatever and messy so I'm a messy
person.
It's almost like etching it into cement
or something. It it you know.
>> Can I ask you a question? Why does it
matter?
>> I don't I don't understand why we have
to psychoanalyze everything we do. I
feel we waste so much time in trying to
figure out I'm like this today because
of this this and this. Sometimes I have
found there's no clear reason why.
There's no there's nothing to to to make
sense of. Even sometimes when people try
to assess like why does this person
treat me this way? Why that? What did I
do? Why this? Sometimes there are
reasons and sometimes that person's just
an [__]
There's nothing analyzed. There's
nothing to figure out. there's nothing
that I dive deep on. That person, you
just happen to fall on an [__] And
that's okay. Let's move on. So, there's
moments where that exists, too. But I
feel like we try so hard to figure it
out that we do more damage. And you
know, like I
Your brain is like a bathtub. Your
cognitive load is like a bathtub. Think
of this as a bathtub. If you have a
bathtub, the bathtub can only hold so
much water. If you keep putting water in
the bathtub, right, it's going to
overflow. That's your cognitive load.
So, if I have my cognitive load, my
bathtub, and I keep putting water,
water, water, it's going to overflow.
It's the same thing when you put stuff
in there. I'm going to add more stuff
and more stuff and more stuff. Your
cognitive load is overflowing. It's
maxed. You're inefficient. You're
sloppy. You're not getting things done
right. If you are, you're just barely
getting there. You're everywhere. You're
stressed out. You're fra frazzled
because you're maxed out. You're beyond
maxed out. So everything I do, and I
will tell you, I learned this from
watching presidents. I keep my load
light. My bathtub only holds the water
it needs to hold in. So it protects you
from overextending yourself, stressing
yourself, and it also keeps you from
making bad decisions. You make good
decisions. There's something called
decision fatigue where the more stuff I
add, we think the busier I am, the
better I am. I'm I'm moving. I'm
hustling. I'm doing all this stuff. Look
how maxed out I am. Just because you're
busy, it doesn't mean you're being
productive. Those two things are not
synonymous. So often people think
leaders keep adding adding. No. You know
what good leaders do? And this is what
again I I've learned. They take out of
that bathtub. They take out. What can I
do less of so I can be exceptional at
the other things I do? Really great
example. This is public knowledge so I
can share it. President Barack Obama, he
had 30 of the same suits.
Why?
Why do you think? 30 of the same exact
suits.
>> So he didn't have to make so many
decisions every day.
>> Yeah. He didn't want to sit and figure
out what he's going to wear.
It's a decision he didn't have to make.
That keeps his bathtub light. Think
about all the decisions he had to make
every single day. I want a light
bathtub. Boop. Take that thing out.
Lighten your bathtub. So when you're
overthinking and overanalyzing and
trying to process all this stuff, you
are maxing out that bathtub. So how can
you perform? You don't have infinite
resources. You do not have an infinite
cognitive load and you do not have an
infinite emotional load. Don't keep
adding. Your job is to take out so that
the things you do do, you do
exceptionally well and you're much more
emotionally stable. I think maybe one of
the reasons why people are tempted to go
back is they think that if they go back
into their history and understand
things, then they can change something
in the present that's going to change
their future. So they think, you know,
if I can figure out why I I'm low
confidence, what happened to me, then I
can do something today which is going to
change tomorrow.
>> So I guess I would say and again I would
see this from I've done hundreds of
mentor sessions. I would tell them where
are you right now? What do you do now
and what do you want to change now?
>> So, I'm low confidence. I move through
the world as if I'm trying to not take
up too much space. I feel like people
are rude to me and I I just have bad
luck. I have bad luck with men. I'm I'm
pretending I'm a woman. I have bad luck
with men. Um and I just feel like people
don't respect me enough. And also, I
just feel like I don't get the credit I
deserve. I see everyone around me, Evie,
getting more credit for doing less work.
>> Okay, so this is great. So, this is
probably a person that you cannot help
number one cuz cuz everything's bad.
Everything is bad. And you'll get those
from time to time. You get those.
Everything's a problem. And if
everything's a problem right now, if you
get that persona, which it does exist.
It's it's you get them. That person
doesn't want a solution.
>> Really?
>> Nope.
>> What do they want? They want me to
validate how they feel. That's what they
want. They don't want a solution. If
everything's the problem, think of it
this way. If every bar I go to I go to I
get into fight into a fight, it's not
it's not the it's not the bar. So when
someone's like, I have this problem,
this problem, this problem, this
problem, this problem, they're they're
so set in who and how they are, they
they want to stay there. Often people do
want an audience. Often people do want
to be told, "I'm so sorry. I'm so I feel
so bad that happened to you." Sometimes
too when bad things happen to us, we get
a lot of attention as a result. Let's
say something really horrific happens.
And I've seen it with somebody maybe who
had a a severe illness or lost a loved
one. When you're dealing with something
like that, what happens, right?
Immediately people come to you. I'm
sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. They're
there to support you. You get this
bombardment of attention. You feel good,
but then eventually people move on with
their lives. And then you get addicted
to where did all that attention go? I
want some of it. So what do I do? I look
for something else to be a problem so I
can get more empathy, more sympathy,
more attention. And so there are people
that get stuck in that cycle. Good
people, I I know good people who get
stuck in that cycle, but I'm also aware
of them because every time I speak to
them, something's not right. I can't
help them. I don't even bother trying to
help them. One, they don't really ask
me. And so I'm very aware. I don't give
unsolicited advice. It It's wrong. It's
not my place. And if they want it,
they'll ask. And then even then, I'm
always very aware, is this even going to
land on this person? Because I'm coming
back to me. My bathtub's full. So, I
can't really invest all that energy in
you if it's I don't mean it to be cold,
but if it's a a waste of time.
>> There's two personas that I'm thinking
about. One of them is personal to me,
and then one of them's personal to one
of my friends. And before we started,
you said one of the things you like is
very specific examples. So, here's a
specific example. There's someone I know
very well, extremely well. I've known
them pretty much my whole life. And when
they came to the UK, they experienced a
lot of racial abuse because they came to
the UK in like 1994. They lived in an
area that was all white. And the abuse
they experienced was very, very real.
The UK, the part of the UK they lived in
became more diverse um over the years.
They've been there for 20, 30 years. And
now the race racial abuse has pretty
much gone away. But you wouldn't you
wouldn't think it because when if you
met this person who did go through this
abuse, so much of their identity became
formed around that abuse. So even though
they now live in an area where there's
no abuse, they still find
a perpetrator. They find perpetrators
everywhere. And actually I I've come to
believe with this particular person who
I know very well that that identity
depends upon it. And that's kind of what
I was hearing in what you're saying is
there's I don't think this person could
survive if they didn't have a
perpetrator anymore. And so much so that
they've started finding perpetrators in
their own family. And their whole family
has now almost cut this person off
because you know their identity is being
a survivor and like a hero heroic
survivor. And now that the enemy has
gone, so much depends on that identity
that, you know, this person's at war at
home and they don't speak to their kids,
their grandkids, and they've lost all of
their family because they've now
convinced that the stepmother is racist
and the other step, you know, the other
um daughter-in-law is racist and this
person said this thing which is racist
or or is abusive towards me. And you see
this in a lot of people that you know
maybe they did go through something but
now they need that thing to hold their
identity in place.
>> So you reminded me of a story which I'll
tell you but here's the thing. If you're
looking for a problem you will always
find one.
>> You will always find a problem. And
that's the thing. So it's the mindset.
>> What do I do about that person if I'm a
bystander?
>> Nothing.
>> Really?
>> I don't try and help them change them.
>> No. Because did he did he or she ask
you?
>> No. don't do it.
>> Why?
>> Because they're not they don't want it.
And you might end up upsetting them
anyway. They might get even angrier from
um from it because they're in a space
where they're so emotional and self
focused and they want to live there. Do
you know too when you sit and you
ruminate like you you it activates parts
of the brain that make you feel alive.
Think of it this way. You get like you
get hits. You know how you get dopamine
hits? I feel good from certain things.
Well, you get a hit when you even when
you're angry or upset. Do you ever get
so upset or angry and you get worked up?
What do you adrenaline hit your your
cortisol is going up. What do you do? I
feel alive. I'm here. I'm there.
That feels good, too.
>> It's it's a different type of feel, but
I feel present. I feel this. I feel like
I feel something.
So, unless somebody comes to you, and
I've learned this lesson, and says,
"Stephen, I want your advice." I
wouldn't give it. One, you're going to
be exhausted. you're doing so many
things, you don't have that ability.
Two, the person's not they're not there
to hear it. So, you also have to have
someone who wants your your guidance or
advice. So, even when I did mentor
sessions or consultations, it probably
like several times where I knew I was
like, this is a waste of my time. I'm
like, you know what? I'm going to give
you a full refund. I'm not for you.
Because I understood. I'm like, this
person isn't they're not registering.
There's You did remind me of a story. I
remember once I was doing a news story
um and I went and I interviewed somebody
who was part of the cleanup efforts for
9/11 right September 11th cleanup e
efforts and uh he was doing all this
stuff to you know present day to help
victims of 9/11 today so I go with my
camera person or the producer I can't
remember we go to set up to interview
this person so I have my own I've had my
own experience with 911 I worked in the
World Trade Center That's where New York
field office was. I was there on that
day. I lost colleagues and friends, but
this person knows nothing about this.
So, I show up and I'm getting them ready
and uh we're talking and there's this
big uh tower tattoo, the towers, 9/11
tattoo. As I'm mikeing up the person,
the towers, there was a room in the h
home that had all this 9/11 uh
memorabilia, like a whole room. And I
remember being there thinking, okay,
this person must have had some really
serious trauma exposure. And I'm not
trying to minimize. So I spoke to them,
this person,
and he had some kind of injury as well.
And I said, "Oh, tell me about it."
Well, I was there and um I was injured
when I was welding. Something kind of
fell on my foot and as a result, I had
to go on some kind of disability. And I
said, "What happened to your foot?" And
it was uh I think he had lost like his
toe or something, his pinky. And I said,
"Okay." And I said, "How long were you
there?" "3 days." I said, "Were you
there for the day of the event?" "No."
"So you weren't there for the day of the
event." So your exposure to 9/11 was 3
days and then you got injured. Yes.
Okay. So I'm clocking this internally to
myself. His whole life was centered
about around the drama, the the the
trauma, the the overcoming 9/11.
Everything was 911, 911, 911. And it was
such an identity space. He was so it was
all like such a horrible thing for him.
And I'm thinking, it wasn't to minimize,
but I'm thinking,
how did you build your whole livelihood
present day around that small event? But
that was his identity. I I remember
thinking I'm like I did the interview
and I had to go. I was like I can't be
around this
because he was just so selffocused on
how bad that experience was that
everything he did and who he was to the
point where you have tattoos on your
body of the World Trade Center. And I'm
thinking how is this helping you move
forward?
>> There's this concept in psychology
called um secondary gain that I was I
was writing a book about. I'm writing
this book at the moment. I was I wrote a
chapter about secondary gain and it
basically says exactly what you're
describing which is there's always a
secondary gain from pain. Typically
there's like something you benefit from
it and the problem is people can get
addicted to that and sometimes it's like
safety or comfort that you get from it.
Sometimes it's identity and sometimes
it's remuneration you know might be
money or other rewards. The other
example that I was going to say in terms
of personas that I'm aware of is the kid
who is in his bedroom and can't leave
his bedroom because he says, you know,
there's something wrong with him. He
might be clinically obese or have some
kind of other issue. And his family
around him are his support network. And
I I actually know someone in this
situation where they just don't leave
their bedroom. And the mother, I think
she's also getting her identity from
being the mother with that child who
she's propping up. And it was it was
interesting that in this particular case
with one of my best friends who lives in
the Middle East, when she stopped
doing that, when she actually heard
something on this podcast and stopped
propping this person up,
>> enabling
>> enabling them, this person got better,
very very quickly got better because she
basically said, "I'm not going to I
can't help anymore. and also don't talk
to me about this. I don't have the as
you say like the cognitive energy
anymore. This person got better and it
made me realize that you know sometimes
two people can keep one person trapped.
>> They can
>> I'm the mother. I'm the savior that is
protecting my child who is unwell and
the child is being the cared for um and
both of them are getting love and
attention and affection from that sort
of abusive unhealthy relationship.
A lot of people find themselves there.
We think about sometimes the attention
you get. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry that
happened to you. That's so sad. That can
become addicting because you're
constantly looking for it. But again, I
I've come to accept people as they are.
I also look at it, who am I to tell you
to be different. If this is where you
like to live and how you like to live,
live it. I think where it becomes a
problem for folks is when it bleeds into
your own life. So like with the mom
where she had that moment where she's
like, I don't want to do this anymore
because it's impacting my life. then I
can understand that cuz she's like I
don't want to participate in this. But I
just have found like I want you to think
of it this way like it's like think of a
an iceberg. Think of an iceberg. You see
the top of the iceberg, the little blip
at the top of the the water and then the
the the big part underneath which is the
vast majority of what makes an iceberg.
We're like that. When you see another
human being, I want you to think of they
got this huge bottom portion of this
iceberg that you don't see. And it's who
makes them what they are. So one the
things that make you who you are today
are all the things that have accumulated
over the entire time span of your life.
Family is a huge one. Did you have
family? Were they good family? Did you
have one parent, both parents? Did you
have any parents? Right? Friends, who
were your friends growing up? Who are
your friends now?
Your experiences, your dramas, your
traumas, all those things make it who
you are. Your values, your belief
systems, your personality. Do you know
that personality in a human being forms
in infancy? So all these things make you
up. Even your age, who you are today is
probably v vastly different, Stephen,
than who you were 5 years ago versus 10
years ago versus 15 years ago. That's
somebody's iceberg. So when you take all
of that, you have that iceberg, do you
think you're going to roll in and within
what a couple hours or a couple
conversations, you're going to get them
to what? Shift. That's what you're up
against. So often people become very
upset because they can't change other
people and that's where I'm like accept
what you had. I give a keynote literally
this week and a woman came to me in
tears at the end. This was at a business
conference. So this was for business for
communication and a very different thing
but she she came up to me afterward.
She said I really want a guidance from
you. I said sure. What is it? Are you
okay? She said, 'I have a husband and
he's very overweight and I've done
everything I can uh to try to get him to
change and I want to try to use these
influence strategies on him to change
him that you talked about. Could you
help guide me? I said, how long have you
been dealing with this? She's like, a
long time, years. I said, does he want
to change? No. She's like, but I try and
I don't want to give up. I said, did you
see that part where I t the part where I
talked about the iceberg? Remember I
showed you the iceberg and I said,
accept people as they are? I said, "He's
the iceberg." I said, "It's not him
that's the issue now. It's you. You're
not accepting what you have in front of
you. That's what he is. Unless you
accept, you can't adapt." So, what
you're doing is you're not living in
truth. You're living in what I hope he
would be, what he has a potential to be,
but not where he actually is now. When
you accept where he is now, this is who
he is. This is who he wants to be. The
next question is, can you adapt to that?
Meaning, are you okay with that?
adapting to his lifestyle and staying
with him. That's the thing. What she's
trying to do is change him, make him fit
so that she can have what she wants.
Wrong. She's trying to solve the wrong
problem. He's not changing. This is it.
This is what you've got. The question
now is, I accept my problem. I live in
truth. This is how my husband wants to
be. Can I adapt my lifestyle so that I
can still stay with him, or is that a
big of a deal breaker where I have to
pull away? She was asking the wrong
question
>> because she's scared of the potential
answer or
>> because she's not seeing the truth in
her problem. Meaning this is who he is
fundamentally. You've been trying for
years to change him and you're trying to
make your life better to the point where
you're emotionally upset. Like she was
so upset about it. And I said, "But
you're trying to solve something that
you can't solve. This is a whole other
person. This iceberg, this bottom part,
he's not he doesn't want it. He's fixed.
What's happening is PE, this is called
adaptability. We want to adapt to our
problems. She's not adapting to her
problem. She's not accepting what her
problem is. The problem is this is my
husband. This is who he is and this is
who he wants to be.
>> But I might be worried that he's going
to die or something. If he
>> he very well will.
>> And you know, if you see someone that's
about to die, one should intervene. No.
>> But can you intervene? And does he want
you to intervene? He doesn't want her to
intervene. And so what matters to you
most? Do you want to keep doing this all
day long because that's what she's doing
to the point where she's crying when I'm
coming off stage? Or do you accept this
is him? This is him. I love him. I can't
change him. I accept him as he is now.
Am I willing to adapt to the truth of
what my relationship is and stay married
and be okay or not? She's the one who
needed to adapt, but she couldn't adapt
because she wasn't living in truth. It's
like, look at it this way. Your
partner's cheating on you and you don't
want to know. You don't want to hear it,
right? And but you're unhappy you're
having all these issues. Part of the
reason you're having these issues is
because you can't accept the truth. The
majority of people struggle. 99.9% of
people are not adaptable because they
don't live in truth. What's the true
problem you have? Accept it. Then
decide, okay, now where do I go from
here? But people don't accept the truth.
It's how I wish it could be, how I would
like it to be, how it was, how it could
be. No, what am I dealing with right
now? Doesn't mean you have to like it.
And this is not agreement. She doesn't
have to agree with his lifestyle, but
it's accepting this is who he is now. My
choice is do I stay or do I go? How how
much of a pain is this for you?
So, you think you should never try and
change someone?
>> I think it's wrong
to do that to people, especially if
they're showing you repeatedly, I don't
want you to do this. Leave me alone.
And you also too, Stephen, whether you
agree with people's lifestyle choices or
not, it is their life. It is not yours.
And so I think that there's also
something a bit arrogant when we think
we're going to roll in and let me tell
you how I should live. My values and
your values could be vastly different
to who am I to impose how I think you
should be? Who says I'm right?
Who said who says I'm right? I say I'm
right based on my own value system. But
people are vastly different. How people
see things and what they think is right
or wrong, it's not the same. So, I I
accept people as they are and I respect
them. I may not want to hang out with
them because it's just not the circle of
people I want to be. But I also it how
narcissistic of is it of me to think I'm
going to roll in and change you. It's
kind of like I did interviews,
interrogations on terrorists.
And when I walked into an interview or
interrogation, I did was not delusional
to think that I'm going to walk in and
I'm going to tell this person, hey, I'm
I'm part of the good guys. I I I just
want, you know, to protect people and
America, you know, we're really just
trying to do the right thing. This is a
person his iceberg that was set for
years. He's thought a certain way. He's
he developed who he was 30, 40 years
old, whatever it is. this is who he is
and I'm going to roll in what and get
you to change your whole mindset. I knew
who I had. I accepted who I had. I
didn't try to change the narrative. Oh
no, I'm this. Oh no, I'm that. I didn't
do any of that. But my goal was what am
I trying to get to? I was like, well, I
need information on the next attack. I
need to know where the next weapons are
coming in. I need to thwart this. So, I
need to get him talking. And that's what
I'm looking for. I'm not trying to
change his value system. I'd be there
all day and all night, weeks. It would
never work. That's what we do. We try to
fundamentally change who people are.
I have people I care about very much and
love and I have tried too. There are
times where you love somebody so deeply
and you're like, "Please, especially if
it's something that harms them, but I've
also learned they don't want it." And
the ironic is sometimes the more you
try, the angrier they become with you.
Who are you? Right? You're imposing
yourself and your beliefs on somebody
else. And they're right. Who am I? Just
because I think life should be lived
this way, it does not mean that they
believe life should be lived this way.
They're probably thinking, "What's wrong
with this? Nothing's wrong with this."
>> It's interesting when I was going
through our previous conversations,
Evie, and I was looking at the moments
that people replayed the most or enjoyed
the most or cut the most or sent to
their friends the most, the overarching
thing I learned is that there's a lot of
people out there who don't feel very
strong. They feel they don't feel seen.
They don't feel respected.
They themselves, I think, feel like
they're low confidence and they look
into a world full of other people who
seem to be more confident and have
everything figured out and they can't
relate and they feel at some level some
of them um a little bit unappreciated.
But I think the bigger point here is
about confidence and strength and
feeling like yeah, feeling feeling like
I can I can get what I want from life.
>> Okay, we're going to break this down,
but I want to ask you a question if it's
okay.
>> Yeah. How do you build your confidence
or what's something you do that builds
your confidence?
>> Oh, that's a great question. Um,
do you know what's really interesting?
When I was 20 years old, I think I
thought I was confident, but I don't
think I was. And I only kind of figured
this out in hindsight because this is I
don't think I've said this before, but
between the age of 18 and 20, every girl
that I was interested in and would get
some way down the line with would
eventually reject me. And then from
about I know people go, "Yeah, because
you made a million dollars." No, listen,
it wasn't that. Even when I had the
money, I was still having I was still
being rejected by women. And then at
some point around like 25
to 30,
everything changed. And so I always say
to my friends, I said to one of my
friends the other day, I was like, I
don't know why. I don't know the science
of this, but what I do know is that it's
very, very hard to fake confidence
because I think it lives in a thousand
micro expressions. I was doing
everything the book said, and I still
wasn't getting the results in terms of a
romantic context. It was like these
women could just like figure out at some
deeper level that I wasn't it. And I
never knew what I was doing because I
guess I can't see myself. Maybe I was
texting back too fast. That's kind of
what you think. Maybe the way I was
standing. But it it taught me over time
that actually you should aim at real
confidence. And the real confidence came
when the story in my head about myself
was that I was of high value. And I'll
share a story. So the reason I said this
to my friend literally two weeks ago was
because he was dating someone and she
turned around to him. She's a very young
girl. He's 35. She was 25.
She turned around and said, "Do you know
what? I don't think I want to have
kids." They'd known each other four
months. And his response to that was
like really, really insecure. It was
like, "I really want to have kids. I
want to have kids." And she ended up
dumping him a week later. And I remember
I I said to him, you know, my current
girlfriend said the same to me when I
was 30. She turned around to me and
said, "I'm not sure if I want to have
kids." And in my head, the first thought
that came in was, if I'm being
completely honest, was
I'm not sure I want to have kids with
you yet either. You're still on trial.
like I'm still dating you to figure out
if you're the right person. So my
response even though I didn't say
anything out loud because I just kind of
shoulder rolled it was
because I valued myself.
My immediate response wasn't to be
insecure. It was to think doesn't
matter. I'm still trying to figure out
if I want to have kids with you. And I
didn't say anything. I just carried on
with the, you know, carried on with my
day. And it made me think that like,
yeah, it's a thousand tiny things.
Confidence is a thousand tiny things,
but it exists. So like comes out of this
central source of who you think you are.
And I think the to answer your question,
the reason why thing that gave me
confidence in my life was I did some
things that convinced myself that I was
someone worth respecting.
>> I'm going to get to the confidence thing
in a moment. I'm actually curious cuz
you said something and I'm wondering, do
you think
these women like your girlfriend and his
the girl he was dating, do you think
they genuinely meant it when they said
it?
>> No. My girlfriend's literally told me
I've been with her for seven years now
and we're we're planning on having kids
right now. She was test. She didn't know
she was. Yes. This is what I said to him
on the [__] plane. We were flying on
a plane. She didn't know she was.
>> It was a test.
>> She didn't know she was testing me
though. And when people hear it was a
test, people will think it was a
conscious thing that she'd written down
and she planned it. No, she had been
through a bunch of stuff with a bunch of
guys who had taken away her freedom. And
so she was her subconscious was testing
whether I was one of those guys that was
also going to try and restrict her or
control her. But throughout our whole
relationship, I was aware of this. So
when she those moments where she said,
"You know what? I think I might want to
fly back to Bali." I said, "Babe, at any
time when you feel like you want to go
back to Bali, you go and I'll help you.
I'll help you go back to Bali. You don't
have to be in London. You go wherever
makes you happy." I'd say it to all the
time. I'd say, "You go wherever makes
you happy." And you know what? I would
mean it because why would I want to be
with someone that wasn't happy? And this
is ultimately what meant that she felt
safe, secure, free, and then it flipped.
But that would never have happened if I
was like my friend who literally feels
like
he's up against a clock to find a woman
and he needs to find one ASAP cuz he's
he's actually 30 3 he's nearly 40 now
and he's single. He's like, "Steve, you
don't understand. I don't have the
time." So he's trying to rush people
down the aisle.
>> Yeah. But so it's it's it's always when
you said that and his circumstance, but
you always wonder why would and some
people truly don't want to have kids and
there's nothing wrong with it. Yeah.
>> But I have found because I've seen it
too. When somebody says it, why are you
saying it?
>> And do you genuinely mean it or are you
saying it to see the other person's
reaction? Are you saying it because you
want to feel better? Because I know some
people who maybe did want or do want to
have kids and they can't or they can't
find a good partner. And so a way that
they make peace with it too is they say
that and everybody makes peace with
things uh things their own way or some
have had past relationships where the
other pe you know their potential
partners were turned off by especially
there's like this thing and I don't know
if it exists now but where some guys may
be turned off because they think women
want a guy who just wants to have kids
so I don't want to put off that vibe so
I'm going to say this to you so you
don't think
>> that I'm I'm that way. So that's why I
always wonder when people say it,
what are they really saying?
>> So in her case, her sisters have never
been able to leave their hometown, her
six sisters, because all of them had
kids super young. And he actually told
me this a couple of months earlier that
she's a little bit unsure about the kids
thing because she thinks it would hurt
her freedom. So 6 months into their
relationship when she comes out with a
statement like that, honestly, what I
said to him, I was like, "Bro, like
you're 6 months in.
>> Just let it ride. Just bloody hell. Just
carry on. like whatever you were doing
in that moment, just carry on doing it
and say that's interesting. Keep it
moving cuz you know, but but going back
to the point because there's this
internal insecurity in him, as much as
you could coach someone like that or
they could read the books, etc., they're
going to be tested in a thousand ways.
>> So, he's fear-based.
So, he's his decisions are being made
because he's afraid he won't find
someone. So, he's dealing with
something. It's not confidence he's
dealing with. He's insecure, but his his
decision is I need to be find somebody
now because I'm afraid I won't find
somebody or I'm afraid I won't get
married or I'm afraid I won't have kids.
So everything is fear-based with him.
It's like when you make a decision, you
know, I I can't quit my job because I'm
afraid I won't find another job. I can't
leave this bad relationship because I'm
afraid I won't find somebody else. Those
are fear-based decisions. So everything
he's doing is pushed and promoted by
fear. So him dating trying to find
someone. It's not cuz he truly does he
want to find somebody. Yes. But the
bigger drive is I'm afraid I'm not going
to find somebody. So I'm trying so hard.
I So all his decisions are fearbased. So
that's why his response were fear-based.
Being fear-based is not a great place to
be. We all visit it. And it's okay to
have fear. Fear is an emotion. But when
it becomes your identity and it sticks
around a lot, that means every decision
you're made is is throttled by fear. And
so his dating is throttled by the fear
that I won't find somebody fast enough.
>> People can tell, can't they?
>> You feel it. You feel You feel it. You
feel that energy, right? And it does.
Does Does it repel people? Yeah. So, he
had this very emotional reaction. And
what did she do? She's like, "I don't
want any part of it." She disappeared
because his fear, which he couldn't
control, and that was more
self-regulation on his part, not
confidence. Self-regulation.
Self-regulation is I control my
emotions. So he felt something. He felt
panic.
>> Mhm.
>> And he couldn't manage that. He couldn't
like his governor. We all have a
governor who manages our emotions. His
governor was out to lunch.
>> Yeah.
>> And so he completely released. So
self-regulation is your ability to
regulate your emotions. So even though
you're panicking, you're afraid, you're
angry, you're sad, there has to be a
governor that says, "I know you're
there. Keep it quiet."
That's how you regulate your emotions.
That's self-regulation. So, because he's
so highly fear-based, he's very poor at
that moment at self-regulating his
emotions.
>> Can someone learn to be a better
self-regulator of their emotions so that
they don't ruin their life by reacting
to things all the time?
>> I did. I was very hot-headed growing up.
I was just like my father. I'm Greek.
I'm New York. I mean, it was I just had
nothing going for me. Uh, I had to learn
and I learned in the NYPD. I was very
young and I was very fortunate to be
around very premier people. We were
talking about your hiring process before
how it's slow and drawn out. That hiring
process is very slow and drawn out. They
kind they pluck you because the idea is
if we put you in here, you better fit
well because just one person is going to
muck up the whole thing. We don't want
we want efficiency. And so I so with
that I was around very highly regulated
people, highly intelligent people. And
so because I was around very highly
regulated pe people and instructors who
kept me in check, uh I clocked it in. So
that's how I was able to manage myself.
So who's around you if everybody around
you is a loose screw?
>> Do you still have the
amygdala like explosion that like do you
still have the mental
surge of emotion, but you just on the
outside sort of have leared to keep it
in
>> externally. I can do it very well.
Sometimes at home with my husband who's
also he's also a homeland security
special agent, US Secret Service, I
sometimes it's nice to put it down
because it's hard to be on all the time.
It's hard to self-regulate all the time.
And so there's moments where he'd be
like, "Somebody's a little emotional
right now." And so I'll check myself.
But there are those safe people that
once in a while you I think it's
important if to have. But even with him,
you know, you don't want to do that to
people because then you make people your
dorm hat.
>> Someone came up to me actually the other
day and talked about a previous
conversation which is somewhat linked to
what we're talking about now. They said,
um, hi Stevie, you had that incredible
woman on your podcast and she talked
about how you shouldn't bring your
authentic self to work and she asked me
about that.
And that's kind of what you're
describing there, which is you're going
to be a different person at home.
>> Don't bring your authentic self to work.
I don't want your authentic self to
work. I want your professional self. I
want your respectful self.
I want your empathetic self. I want your
competent self. You can bring your
authentic self to Thanksgiving meal with
your family if you'd like to. Does that
make sense? You secret service like,
"Come in. Everybody be your
authenticelves." You don't get high
performers. You get sloppiness.
Everybody's doing their own thing.
That's not a team.
If you're team oriented, you leave your
authentic self here and you bring your
genuine self who genuinely cares about
the mission, who genuinely cares to do a
good job, who genuinely knows that it's
not about you. It's about the collective
team. That's who you bring. Your
authentic self is about who? Me, me, me,
me, me. I'm all about me. In teams,
nobody cares about I don't mean it in a
me way. They don't care about you
personally. Who? Who are you? What are
you bringing? Are you bringing value?
Are you bringing Are you bringing
solutions? Are you getting things done?
My authentic self. Could you imagine if
I brought my authentic New York self to
every interrogation I did? I would
interview people who committed crimes
against children. I had one case,
three-year-old little girl. She says
about the person who was babysitting
her, which was a 16-year-old young man.
Young man, he touched me down there.
Three-year-old little girl. So, they
call me in to do this interview.
um on this young man, this little girl
saying he touched her down there.
They're three. They're not really able
to communicate. Can you talk to him? So,
I'm sitting talking to him this
interview and I'm trying to find out
what happened. Well, as I'm talking to
him, he starts to reveal more and more.
He did touch down there and he did other
things to the point where he confessed
he had full-on sex with this little girl
between the ages of 3 to four of her
age. He's 16. Could you imagine if I
brought my authentic self into that
room?
What would my authentic self say? What
are you thinking? How could you? It's a
three-year-old. No, I brought my
professional self. Okay, tell me what
happened. Tell me more. Non-judgment
poker face. You know why? Because what I
think my authentic self is irrelevant.
What mattered? Getting information,
getting a confession so I can find out
what happened so that investigators
could figure out what to do so this
little girl wouldn't be victimized
again. That's what I mean by your
authentic self. Don't come in and be
phony. Nobody wants a phony. But
authentic self has become me me.
Everybody check me out. It's me me. I
was irrelevant personally. It was what I
was contributing. What was my goal, my
task? That's what I mean by authentic
self. So when you show up to work,
wherever you work, what are you bringing
to bring value to the whole team? Cuz
your authentic self could be I'm
bringing my problems. I'm bringing my
opinions. I'm bringing my judgments.
Honestly, nobody cares. I am have lots
of different leaders across my different
companies and when I look at the best
leaders, one of the things they have in
common is you do feel like they are
being honest with you.
Are they bringing their full authentic
self and all their baggage to work? No.
But you feel like you're dealing with
the honest version of them. And I think
some of the worst leaders, the ones that
really really struggle, you can see that
the team that they're leading
just feel like maybe they're
manipulating them a little bit or
they're they're not being straight with
them or there's something going on.
They're acting. You can kind of feel it.
So, I'm wondering how this kind of sits
with everything you've just said there
cuz you're going into these
interrogations
and you're winning them over to some
degree because
>> I'm building trust.
>> You're building trust, but you're not
acting. That's a different thing.
>> I'm not being disingenuous.
>> How do you square all of that? You're
like, "No, you're Are you acting or
you're not acting?"
>> I'm listening cuz I'm not there for me
and I'm not there to pass judgment. The
quickest way to shut people down, even
in business, you want to know what's
going on around you all the time. If
people are too afraid to say things or
don't tell Steven, oh, you don't know
how he's going to react or he's going to
get mad, his this, that's a problem. The
problem is they're going to be too
afraid to tell you things. You want
people to come to you and to give you
the bad news to tell you when things
aren't going right because you want to
collect intelligence. You're collecting
intelligence because when you have the
right intelligence, then you can make
the right decisions. But you must need
to know what's going on around you. So
when you pass judgment and you're
telling everybody your opinion and
you're bringing your authentic self,
people filter information
because they're bringing versions of
themselves that they think you want to
hear. We don't want that. I was very
neutral. I'm a neutral slate even to
this day. I try to be neutral in that I
allow people to come to me and people
are very open and they share and it
works well for me because I get a good
read on people and situation so I can
make good decisions but I don't do a lot
of the talking. The vag a good
interviewer doesn't say anything.
Good interviewer says less. Don't make
it about you. Don't try to guess where
people head space is. Ask them you seem
you seem like you're something I said
before is upsetting to you. Could you
tell me a little bit about that? Uh,
explain to me what it is that you're
worried about right now. Describe to me
what you're concerned at. We used to
call it teed. Tell me, explain,
describe. It's just a way great way to
get people talking. Just get them
talking. But it going back to what
you're saying. It's just everything is
very about me me. We become so identity
based that we don't really
we're not connected to the community
around us and how we impact others.
Everything is what's happening to me.
What's in it for me? Me, me, me. It's
like, do you know that you impact other
people? You touch other people. You
affect other people's lives. You make
other people's day better or worse. You
make the work environment easier or more
taxing.
You You do that, but everything has
become
myself. And we've lost that balance of
the world does to me, but I also do to
the world. to be effective when you're
dealing with these monstrous people that
you dealt with, whether it's terrorists
or people that hurt children or whoever
else it might be. Is did you have to
kind of step outside of
like do you do you have to detach at
some deeper level and do you have to see
everybody as just a human being? Cuz I'm
I'm wondering how you navigate those
spaces when these people have done
horrific things. Are you do you did you
teach yourself to just be more
empathetic? Dare I say
>> you could be empathetic. So all
different crimes have different types of
characteristics. So somebody who's a
terrorist, let's say, that's more of an
ideology. And they were typically raised
from being very young to feel a certain
way. So I understood coming into a room
that I'm dealing with someone who's been
groomed from a very young age to see the
world a certain way. So that's why I did
not bother wasting my time trying to
change the that that that that person's
viewpoint.
>> But what about that kid that hurt that
little girl?
>> So with him, that specific one, I spent
a lot of time speaking to him and I did
bring empathy. So empathy does not mean
I agree with you. I'm trying to
understand you. And what turned out with
him is he had been sexually abused
himself when he was young. And so all
that stuff came out and it did not
excuse his behavior or what he did, but
it was genuine. I was genuinely curious.
I was genuinely asking him. Um, and at
the same time, I needed to find out the
truth. Look, there were sometimes I
would have somebody across from me and
I'm thinking they did it and then
afterward I'm like, they didn't do it.
There's there's times where you clear
people and that's really important. So
that's why when you would at least when
you talk to people and even to this day
I I we're all biased but I try not to
come in and project that I really try to
give people a fair chance to show me
what's happening instead of coming in
with prejudgments. And so you're better
at reading their behavior too um when
you're talking to people. So with him he
revealed a whole bunch what had happened
to him. It was sad. It was empathetic.
It did not clear him from what he did.
They eventually actually with the
confession I got he was eventually tried
as an adult and you know that was very
detrimental obviously to his life right
it impacted his life but but I I could
have genuine empathy in that moment
empathy is I I'm just trying to
understand where you are and how you
feel that's not sympathy
>> who's better at spotting lies women or
men
>> there's no research that shows one is
better than the other
>> cuz women seem to have a sixth sense and
people joke about it in like
relationship context, but I generally
feel like I feel like women have a
heightened sensitivity. And actually,
when you look at some of the studies,
for example,
women can smell I think it's
testosterone, but men can't smell
certain the same or certain hormones on
women. So, like from a physiological
standpoint, women do seem to be more
sensitive
to especially to like pair um to men.
There was that study they did where they
got um t-shirts off men after they'd
been for a run and the women went down
and smelt them and then they I think
they had to guess which one was the most
attractive and they all pointed the one
that had the highest testosterone in it.
So there's things that are going on that
we can't see and feel. So I just
wondered if your experience men or women
were.
>> In my experience, no. And I will say and
this is just a a lot of men were very
good at assessing. One of the reasons um
look the vast majority of polygraph
examiners were male. There were some
women and they were very good too. The
vast were male. What males men are good
at being more rational. It's actually
they were there was a they were trying
to figure out if there's a difference in
the brain between men's brains and
women's brains. And there's not much.
The one thing that they saw is that
women have more discernment. So a a
female brain tends to activate a little
bit more and they tend to think about
something more than the male brain. A
male brain may be a bit more impulsive,
right? More actionbased and the female
brain may be a bit more let me talk to
you, let me try to understand. And
actually if you look at the data for
female cops versus male cops, female
cops have less complaints against them,
made against them, and they tend to
think because they're better
communicators. they have less complaints
because when you're a cop, you're going
to get a complaint. There's no way
you're gonna get them like you're gonna
just get them. Um, but women tend to
have less female officers tend to have
less complaints and they think that
they're just better at dialoguing and
deescalating.
>> On this point about confidence, then you
said it didn't sound like my friend had
a confidence issue. Do you think
confidence is the thing that the people
who do feel like they're not respected
in the world need to be aiming at? And
in your experience, what what can one do
to build their confidence?
>> Let me say this first. I've been around
very
steady people, confident people, I
suppose. I've never seen anyone or heard
anybody talk about it
ever. I've never heard anybody in the
circle of where I was, whether it's
former SEALs, uh, US Secret Service, the
PE that that I've never heard anyone
talk about it. And I think one of the
secrets is they don't talk about it.
They don't think about it. They don't
give it that much life. They just I just
am. I just are. So I think that's one
secret where people try to they think
about it so much and I think it goes
back to what we're saying initially like
stop overanalyzing. Just be just be you
just do. But now if you're if you're
looking at confident people with things
that I notice traits amongst confident
people or steady people uh I they have a
strong they have a good circle around
them meaning they're very aware and
meticulous of who's around them and who
they associate with cuz if you're not if
you're around insecure people it it
bleeds on you like you're going to
absorb what other people are and if you
know if you're the most confident person
in the room it's probably not a good
thing.
It's it's not a good thing. You want to
be around people you learn from. It
can't just be you're at the top and
everybody's looking to you. Your
bathtub's going to crack. Number one.
The other thing I learned about
confidence, research shows law people in
law enforcement are perceived to be
highly confident. And one of the reasons
they believe it is because they're
decision makers. You make decisions on
the spot. Everyday life and death
decisions. And there's nobody to turn
around to be like, "Hey, can I ask you
your opinion on this? What do you think
I should do with this guy wielding this
knife? Should I shoot? Should I not?
Should I pull out the pepper spray? I
mean, what would you do in this moment?
You'd be dead.
So, when you're used to making
decisions, whether right or wrong, but
when you're used to making those
decisions and believing in yourself and
trusting in yourself that you're making
the best decision you can with the
information you have at that moment,
that builds confidence. Be a decision
maker. I think those are the two most
important things, having awareness. And
honestly, just show up. Just show up.
Don't worry about being confident. Worry
about simple things. Show up on time.
>> I was reading this study about
confidence in the victim mindset. It was
a study done by Yuggov in 2025 in the
United States. And it said women rated
themselves much higher on
trustworthiness, honesty, and empathy.
But men rated themselves higher on
self-awareness, sense of humor, and
confidence. And the gap between
self-reported confidence between men and
women was quite significant. It's about
50% of men consider themselves confident
where it's only about 35% of women that
consider themselves confident.
>> I'll tell you this, I've never heard uh
I've never heard anybody like from the
field of work I came for came from say I
feel like I'm an imposttor. You know
that whole imposter syndrome? I've never
heard that again. I didn't hear it till
after I left the service. Like it's wild
cuz all these things I had no awareness
of them because they were never
discussed in the circle that we were in.
the so I also think sometimes when we
sit and discuss these things to such
extent that they actually start to plant
seeds of doubt I'm not saying we
shouldn't study and have self-awareness
but I think when we over evaluate to
such a degree I we never did that and
you know how do you how do you build
confidence in I I think about training
training there was nobody cheering you
on there was nobody like hey pump good
job good job girl good job they were
they were trying to get me sent home.
You had to fight. You had to claw your
way. You had to claw your way to get
that job and then prove that you should
be there. They did everything they could
to wean you out, to kick you out. And so
I think when you're determined,
like you stick, you just stick it out
and you're just There was days where I'm
like, I don't know how I'm going to get
through today. Or even runs. We would do
runs and one of the things they would do
just to mess with you. They take you on
on a run for miles and miles and you
never knew when it was going to end.
That's the worst. At least if you know,
hey, we're going to run from here to
here. It's going to be 2 miles, 3 miles,
5 miles, 10 miles, whatever. Tell me
what I'm looking at. But it they
wouldn't tell you. So you'd start
running. And then you'd hit a point like
and you'd think, at least I would. I
think, "Oh my god, how am I going to do
this?" And you know what I would do? I
would go and I'd be like, "Just make it
to that tree." It was just 5t ahead of
me. I made it to the tree. make it to
that mailbox. I made it to the mailbox.
Just make it to the next tree. And and
that's how you do it.
What's right in front of me? But if you
look at that whole picture of how am I
going to be all of this,
it's so overwhelming and so
it's just so hard. It's just going to
it's going to kill your confidence.
Whether it's like I want to do this,
what's the first thing I need to do?
Then the second thing I would think and
I'm asking you when you build your
businesses right or your company did you
just put one foot in front of the other
and just try to do it or did you stop
and say you know what Stephen let's have
a conversation I need to be confident
before I do this I need to build my
confidence did you sit and do that and
once you checked off that confidence bit
then you're like okay now I'm ready to
do this
>> yeah one of the most incredible things
is I I actually didn't know what the
world entrepreneur was I had no idea
what it was so I had this idea and I
started did trying to figure out how to
make the idea happen which looked like 3
months on Google scrolling down
searching the word web developer
clicking onto people's links and then
emailing them saying hey can you build
websites like I so it was this long
drawn out process of stumbling forward
and had I known I think a lot of
entrepreneurs and founders say this had
I known what it would have taken had I
known how difficult it was had I not
been so ignorant and naive maybe I would
have been demotivated or demoralized to
do it but I was 18 left university had
an idea didn't know what the word
entrepreneur was. Didn't really even
know how you established a company and
tried to use the internet to make that
idea happen in like 3 to four months
trying to figure out how you name a
company just by like googling stuff. So
very much one foot in front of the
other.
>> What did you just say? I was ignorant
and naive.
>> Yeah, it was useful. It was phenomenally
useful cuz I think if if I was informed
it would have been like standing at the
foot of Mount Everest, but I couldn't
see the mountain in front of me. So it
felt much more easy to climb. And this
is in part why people get, you know, I
spoke to Neiel who's a an author of a
book called undistractable.
And he said a phrase to me which I've
always remembered. He said
procrastination
is
the avoidance of psychological
discomfort. So when you have that big
essay to do, what you end up doing is
taking the path of least resistance,
which might be I'll just clean the house
and the house gets really tidy because
psychologically that essay feels like
Mount Everest. You don't know where to
start. You're not well researched on it.
So you clean the house instead. And so
procrastination is the avoidance of
psychological discomfort. And so had I
known how big that mountain was when I
was 18, I probably wouldn't have done it
because the psychological discomfort
associated with the knowledge would have
been so overwhelming. I would have just
cleaned my house. And so sometimes,
yeah, it does help.
>> It goes back to a lot of the stuff that
we're saying that sometimes
overanalyzing and trying to make sense
of things does you a disservice where
sometimes if you just let things be and
you just move forward to try to execute,
the goal is to execute and do. Because
if you sit and trying to analyze
everything, how should this be done or
that be done? Or if you look at the big
big p bigger picture of what it's going
to be like, it's it can be it can kill
you. It can kill your confidence.
Training, I had no idea what training
was going to be like. Absolutely none. I
went in there completely blind,
completely clueless. I actually thought
it was going to be like college. Haha. I
learned my lesson the hard way. But this
I think we need to be a bit more present
and focused and just start executing and
making progress. Progress, no matter how
small, is progress as long as you're
moving in that direction. But thinking
about something, ruminating over
something, playing that CD over and over
again, procrastinating, just start. Just
go.
>> I spoke to Sir David Brazilford, who's
the guy that turned the British cycling
team around. And he told me that when he
went in there and those players, those
cyclists were like down and out and
depressed and winning nothing. One of
the first things he did was ban them
from thinking about the podium. And so I
always I came up with this phrase called
pedals over podium based on everything
he said to me which is he got his riders
to think about the pedals in front of
him just the rotation of the pedals and
not whether they were cycling fast
enough to win the gold or needed to
speed up. And he said to me when he did
that it was almost like the riders would
get to the end of the track and they
would get off the bike and they could
not recall the cycle because they were
so present. They'd almost been in like
this hypnotic state, but they ended up
producing their best times because what
they've done is they removed the
amygdala, all the emotion, the fear, the
you know, which burns a lot of energy as
a cyclist, I imagine, if you're thinking
too much. And that produced their best
times. They went on to become the most
successful cycling team of all time, I
believe, and won five out of the six
tour to Frances. And that whole idea of
like, yeah, just be present, just focus
on the next, as you say, step along the
way.
I think it's difficult for people
because
sometimes that first step is so small.
So small that it's it's sometimes a
little bit embarrassing. You know, the
first step to change your life, the
first step to confront an issue in your
life is so sometimes so small that it
feels like that can't possibly be the
right step to take
>> because it's hard because it's
uncomfortable.
>> What's that like? They call it exposure
therapy. It was Jordan Peterson that
said to me, he was like dealing with a
guy in that he who wouldn't leave his
bedroom and instead of getting him to
like go outside and stuff, he just got
him to move the Hoover 10 cm closer
today and that was today done. And then
the next day he got him to like turn the
Hoover on but then turn it off. That was
that day done. And Jordan said to me, he
said, "The problem with people with
change is the first step is often so
embarrassingly and shame shamefully
small that people like don't want to do
it. That's like embarrassing to do
something so small
>> because it's a myth. We've been fed a
myth that to make big change in your
life, you have to make do big decisions.
You have to make make big movement and
the big change you create in life, it's
through the small movements. You just
reminded me of a story. My buddy Don
Saladino, he's like the he does training
um for all the you ever watch a lot of
those Marvel movies, the DC movies with
all those characters. He trains a lot of
them to get them physically fit for the
movies. and he was telling me he had a a
story of a I think he was telling me he
had a client and who he was just trying
to get him to work out and the client
was overweight and having all these
issues. And what what the client did
what what they they did is the client
just tried to create progress. So the
first day what he did was he took his
sneakers and he just put them in front
of his bed and that was it. And then the
next day he took his shoes and put them
outside the door of his bedroom. And
then the day after that he took the
shoes and put them in the kitchen. And
then the next day he took the shoes and
just put them on. And then the day after
that he took the shoes, he walked
outside and put them on outside. Then
the day after that he took the shoes and
just went to the corner and then came
back. And then he went from being
severely obese and having um um being
very unhealthy to running marathons.
And that's how he did it.
You've seen some of the most
consequential people ever make
decisions, these presidents.
Maybe you can't answer this question. I
don't know if you can, but who were the
best decision makers and why that you
observed?
>> I'm going to say this, to be the
president of United States, it's no
small thing. So, for you to get to that
place, you
you are exceptional. I I just I say this
in a in a neutral way. people get very
personal or biased and I I don't just
because I served under various
presidencies didn't matter what the
party was and I learned so much from all
of them but as far as making decisions
there are a couple of things one they
had a really good circle around them in
her circle like everybody didn't have
access to the president there were
layers around the president so everybody
didn't have access to them that was
really important but the circle around
them was a circle that was there to
support them everybody around them was
steady I never saw Uh, I never saw
anybody go cry at the White House. I
never saw anybody lose their mind. I
never saw anybody get emotionally
dregulated. I never saw this. And that
was important because that kept them
steady. The other thing was they were
very good at delegating. So they didn't
need to know everything, but they would
find people who knew more than they did
to give them adisement to help make
decisions and they would just make
decisions. The other thing I saw and I
witnessed, they worked very hard. they
worked. I would see presidents sit up. I
mean, I think it's okay to say this. I
really don't talk about the people are
protected out of out of respect. You
know, there's a Greek saying, everybody
loves the
everybody loves the treason. Nobody
loves a traitor. And so, I'm just always
careful not to say, but I would see
presidents like I remember President
Bill Clinton, he'd be up till very late
hours of the night studying, reading,
preparing, just reading. President
Barack Obama. I mean, I'd work midnight
shifts sometimes and he was up studying,
sitting at his desk, reading, preparing.
They would study. They would spend time
studying. So, all those things
collectively help you feel like I'm as
informed as I can be by studying myself,
by surrounding myself with people who
are informing me, who are also steady.
And then I make the best decisions I can
with the m the information I have in
front of me. Now, one of the things we
do, and we all do this, we do a
disservice to us when things don't go or
work out the way we thought they would.
We beat up on ourselves. I should have
known this. I should have this. I should
have that. And anytime I start to do
that or I have somebody, and I always
say, I'm like, my husband used to say
this, too. He's like, you made the best
decision you could with what you knew in
that moment. Don't go back and make
yourself feel like [__] because you feel
you should have chose differently. I've
heard Obama say that as well
>> just like I said it
>> pretty much close. He I I heard him talk
about this whole idea of making
decisions at 51% certainty when he spoke
at this conference I was speaking at in
Sa Paulo a couple of years ago and he
was talking about the big decisions in
his career like going in and getting
Assama bin Laden didn't have 100%
certainty and he said sometimes in life
you have to make make a decision with
the information you have and be at peace
with the fact that you made the best
available decision with the information
you had and move move on.
>> Confident people are okay with not
knowing all the information. Yeah,
>> they're okay. I don't need to know. It
doesn't have to be 100% right. Because,
and here's the other thing, because
we're so scared of making the wrong
decision. And unless you're the
president of the United States or and
you're in law enforcement and you may
shoot the wrong human being, which I
get, but overall, most decisions, not
life or death, make a decision and then
feel okay with it being wrong, if you're
so insecure that you're terrified you're
going to make the wrong decision. Why?
Cuz you're going to look dumb. You're
going to feel dumb.
confidence. You don't care how you look
or how you eat. You're not sit and
you're not quantifying. He's going to
think I'm done. She's going to think I
look stupid. They're going to think
this. And even for yourself,
like you don't tally that. You're okay
with making the wrong decision. It's
like I'm going to make my choice. I hope
it's the right one. I did the best I
could, but I'm comfortable with that.
But if you're so worried about it's the
wrong decision,
then don't make one. And that's that in
and it of itself that confident people
don't do that. So the other thing I
would see presidents do they had they
had time to themselves
meaning like you would see them they
would have time where they would be
alone and they would think they weren't
they weren't always exposed or
surrounded by people. George W. Bush he
would go to Waco to the ranch. That was
his roots. That was his place to like I
need to kind of find my roots. President
Barack Obama, I spent every holiday in
Hawaii. He went home. George Bush
Senior, he would split his time between
Kenny Bunkport and Texas, Houston. So,
that was another thing. They'd all go
home.
They'd all go home.
>> I hear from a lot of very successful
people that I interview that they all
have some kind of meditation practice.
And even when I looked at the life of
someone like Steve Jobs and how he was
able to continually see around corners
and remove the keyboard and remove the
stylus and remove the the iPhone jack
and remove Java from our phones and do
all of these things that at the time
were like crazy talk that
that someone who was motivated by
money today would not have done, but
someone that could see the future
tomorrow could have done. And um you
come to learn that he was basically like
a yogic like he was he was a meditator.
And what you described there made me
think of that which is okay all these
successful people seem to be have some
kind of practice where they get out of
the trenches and like into their
intuition or into the clouds alone so
they have space to stand back from the
the painting so they can see the full
picture.
>> Do you know what they would all also do?
I can't speak for all of them but a lot
of them worked out like their workout
was built into their schedule. Uh
President George Bush uh Jr. he would
bike he used to actually be a runner. He
was a very fast runner. Um because they
would ask for agents to run with him and
you when you run when when you would run
you have to run with your gear on.
President Clinton was a runner. Then
Bush Bush started biking so you had to
be a good biker.
>> Where can they run?
>> Well, President Bush would run the
trails when we'd go to Texas or Waco.
You're not going to run the streets of
Washington DC. So they have the White
House has its own internal gym. But they
did they did run. They were very
athletic. President Barack Obama every
morning gym.
So the part of integrating the body into
the mind is key. I saw them all do it
and I think that plays a role. It can't
just be we separate the mind and body.
You
when you physically take I've just seen
them all do it and I learned it also as
an agent like you're you had to work out
and you had to use your body because
also when you use your body and you're
moving it and you're you're working it
out, you're taking care of it, you feel
good. Do you feel like you're doing
something powerful and positive for
yourself? And that in and of itself
builds confidence and strength.
>> Just give me a minute of your time and
I'll tell you about a device that my
team has been using that they won't seem
to shut up about. It's called the Note
Pro and it's by our sponsor Plaude. This
tiny card clips onto the back of your
phone and captures everything. But why
it's so clever is that it picks up
multiple voices at the same time. And
when someone says something important,
you just push this tiny little button
here and that moment gets highlighted in
your notes and captured. It records the
conversations that it hears, takes those
conversations, creates a transcript, and
it uses AI to synthesize all of that
information into whatever template suits
you. You get a summary, action points,
highlights, and even a mind map sent
straight to the Plaude app. So, I highly
recommend you check out Plaude's
products using the link in the
description below. Don't tell anybody
this, but if you use code DOAC22,
you'll get 22% off on some of Plaude's
products.
I was trying to understand what it feels
like to have true a true lack of
confidence. Like, how does it feel
inside your body? And the research I did
showed there's really four areas that
you feel it. The first area is in your
body physically like the tightness in
your body body which could be clenched
jaw. It could be like that fidgeting you
see heart racing all the like fight
orflight responses. The second way you
feel it is in the mind self-doubt asking
yourself always am I good enough? Kind
of double- guessing yourself running
through worst case scenarios ruminating
on your past mistakes. The third way is
in your emotions which is this feeling
this insecurity that you might be
exposed at some point. Um avoiding
speaking out too much or holding
yourself back. The and the last way is
in behavior which is speaking softly,
rushing your words, avoiding eye contact
and apologizing.
>> I don't
>> too much.
>> I feel that's such a waste of time
like to spend to sit and analyze
yourself. Now, if you're not a good
speaker, I look at it as I want to work
on my speech. It's paral linguistics
it's called, right? Uh, I want to try
from my uh the best tone I can so that I
can speak with authority. Research shows
that it's not what you say. People
sometimes sit and memorize like what
they're going to say, the words they're
going to use when in fact the research
shows
what you how you say it impacts people
more than what you say.
>> So the way that you speak is clearly
resonant with people. Are you aware of
what it is about the way you speak that
is making my viewers show up every time
you come here in the tens of millions to
hear you speak?
>> When I speak, I own my voice. So there's
paral linguistics there. And I learned
this from doing the news because if I
don't sound like I know what I'm talking
about, then does not matter what I say.
It's what I sound like.
So if you know even using the the right
part of my voice my my deeper uh tone my
authentic tone you know it's very
different. Hi I'm Evie. How are you
doing? Okay. One of the things that
really makes sure in front of my
daughter not to go in a really high
pitched voice because I don't want her
growing up talking like this. I want her
to grow up having a stronger, deeper
tone voice because the research shows
when you own your voice, people respect
you and they see you as an authority.
And so I just don't want to
inadvertently give her that high-pitch
voice, which doesn't mean it's her
natural voice. It's the voice that I've
helped cultivate and groom for her to
have. So let's just put that right
there. So those are little things that I
also have awareness of. I don't want to
tell her, hey, speak this way. I'm going
to show her to speak and she's going to
she's going to mimic that. So when you
look at how you present yourself to
others. So as far as like when I come
here, I come here and I look at it this
way. This interview is not about me.
You've invited me here what third time.
Thank you. I'm super humbled. But this
isn't about me. It is about them, the
audience. Right? I don't matter. I'm
irrelevant. You're irrelevant.
We're two people who are trying to share
information that maybe hopefully make
the world a better, more wise, more just
place. Maybe it helps makes people's
lives a little bit better. That's what
matters. They matter. We don't. And so
when you bring that in and you put all
your energy on the person you are
speaking to because they want to hear
it.
And if you put that there, then they
feel it.
>> As you said all of that, I was analyzing
the way that you were speaking. And you
do a bunch of really interesting things.
One of them is that you take silences
that most people would not take.
>> Okay. I'm going to Don't be offended.
I'm going to try and Okay. I'm going to
try and show show what I mean. Are you
there for you
or are you there for them? Most people
wouldn't have taken that silence.
There's a certain selfish because
silence is taking something from some
someone in a in an interesting way. It's
like you've taken some time from someone
and people, you know, as it says in
these studies that are low confidence,
they rush because they know that
>> I don't want to waste your time. I'm not
that important. So, let me hurry through
this. Yeah. So I don't I don't cuz you
because you're more important than I am.
100% right. So you I will give kudos to
this. I watch presidents speak. Barack
Obama again this is something I shared
publicly and I think it's okay. He was
brilliant at this. He would watch his
speeches. He would speak and he would
take his time. He would do emergency,
you know how they would interrupt TV
shows or something emergency, you know,
message or breaking news from the White
House, whatever. I never saw him rush
through anything. I never saw him, you
know, say it himself or think, I better
hurry up through this. You know, I'm
disrupting Gray's Anatomy. People want
to get back to the show. No, I'm the
president of the United States. I have
something relevant to say and I'm going
to say it.
I'm going to own my time in my voice.
I'm not going to waste your time. I'm
going to get to the point. I'm not going
to belabor the point. That's different.
But I'm get to the point and I'm going
to pause. I'm going to own my time. So
when you speak again this is it's how
you say it not what you say. You also
want to give people time to absorb what
you're saying to feel what you're
saying. When you slow down also as a
presenter I am less likely to make
mistakes. I am less slightly less likely
to say the wrong thing live on camera.
When I do the news I am less likely to
do these things and I'm more likely to
able to think process and share. And
you're right. How many times do people
do presentations and when I do
communication for companies, I always
tell them when you're doing your
presentations, please don't do this. All
right, guys. Just one other thing. Let
me put this in here. I don't want to
waste anybody's more time or take up any
more time. Just really quickly,
what did I just do? I just told you what
I'm about to tell you really isn't that
important. So, don't even listen. Why do
we do that? I'm here. I'm speaking. what
I have to say. If I'm saying something
of value, if I know I'm saying something
of value because I'm trying to share and
make the whole system, the process
better, then pause. I'm going to pause.
I'm going to speak. I'm going to share.
But if I'm talking for myself because
I'm insecure. I want people to see me.
Everybody needs to know you're sitting
at that table, right? Make yourself
known. Make sure they can hear you. Make
sure they see you at that meeting. You
just made that about you. You shouldn't
be at that table.
That's the difference. Command your
voice. Also, the science and research.
So, because I know you like science and
research, the more we speak, meaning if
we talk a lot and we use a lot of words
and we don't get to the point, we are
seen as less trustworthy.
And people value uh they people will
assess how competent and confident you
are in the way you speak. Get to the
point, say it with less words, and be
impactful. Command what you say. So, I
think what we're trying to say is I
command what I say. I'm not as worried
in my head. Am I wrong? Am I right? Am I
going to say the wrong thing from time
to time? Sure.
Who isn't? But I'm owning my voice. And
I think people are so afraid to own
their voice. Own your voice. And if
you're wrong,
if your intention is right and you've
prepared and you're doing your best and
you're being genuine, not authentic,
you're being genuine, and you genuinely
care about the people you're speaking
to, the audience, then it's all okay.
You use your hands a lot as well which
is I think is a trait of someone who is
feels like they deserve
your attention and space and respect
because it takes up room to and as you
were doing that you were using a good
you know 50 cm either side of you to
make the point but it's also just more
engaging to watch because you went
and most people wouldn't a lot of people
you know it's kind of like
It's
>> so there's a couple of things that so
it's really good that you brought that
up. One, I'm Greek, so that plays a
role. So I try not to be so they're
called illustrators when people use
their hands, but yes, there is a
strategy to it. One, I learned it from
what doing television when I first began
doing the news, which I knew nothing
about. Again, I went from a a job where
you were supposed to be not in front of
the camera, actually out of the camera
because the camera was supposed to catch
the president, never you, to being in
front of the camera. friend, the
producer I worked with the very first
day said, "Let me give you a secret,
when you're on camera, just so you know,
the camera sucks like 25% of your energy
away. It takes immediately 25% of your
energy out. So when the person is
watching,
you look flatter." You ever watch Zooms?
You ever do Zoom and it looks like
everybody's bored out of their mind and
you're thinking, "What's going on?" It's
not them, it's the camera. It takes
energy. So, if you're trying to engage
people, one of the things you can do,
first of all, when you speak, people
hear 49% of what you say. So, when
you're talking, if you're able to keep
their attention, they are hearing half
of what you say. And that's if they're
connected to you. So, think about that.
Now, I'm trying to speak. And when you
speak, you're also telling a story. So,
I can sit like this, which side note,
um, when you sit on your hands, it's
considered, uh, some people say it's a
considered sign of, um, deceit. I'm
hiding my hands. Uh, I'm a liar.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, so when you you people don't see
hands, it's a sign of untrustworthy. Uh,
untrustworthiness, like you can't trust
them. When you see hands, open hands,
I'm no threat. It's kind of like an
psychological thing for prehistoric
time, prehistoric times. I see no
weapons in your hand. I can trust you.
So that's something I learned as a
technique as well in the polygraph room.
Always have your hands out. Always be
open. I'm open. I'm here for you. And so
I've I've learned to roll that into how
I present because I learned that it's
really important to use your hands and
you are storytelling. Um and you are
commanding your voice. So all those
things combined, you're you're trying to
keep also people's attention. So you I
also look at it, I'm trying to keep you
engaged in the conversations. So, I
can't be lazy and not I have to work
hard to keep you engaged. You're you're
also people kind of like they pingpong.
Even if somebody you ever go to a
conference and you're like, I'm really
going to pay attention. I'm going to
really focus and 5 10 minutes you're in
there and you lose people. It's not
their fault. What am I going to eat
later? Where am I going to go for lunch?
Did I send that email? Oh, I have to
pick up my dry cleaning later. People
pingpong. So, it's especially today
where you're competing with all this
noise and there is so much noise out
there. you really are trying hard to
keep you people engaged. So you don't
have to be long-winded. Speak, engage,
show them that you're there, own your
space, and command your words.
>> One of the things I learned from
watching Mr. Beast make content, but
also from doing this podcast and sitting
with guests that get really high
retention cuz like the audience don't
know this, but when every guest comes on
the show, we get a graph back from
YouTube and the other places that the
podcast appears that shows how many
minutes people listened for. And
sometimes there's like big swings there
between the lowest performing guest and
the highest performing guest on YouTube.
There's a
100% gain in retention. So like thinking
back over the last month, the lowest
performing guest on the diversity here
in terms of how long people listened for
is let's say just arbitrary number
people listened for one hour. The
highest performing they listened for two
hours. And that's the the range that we
see. And when I look at why that is,
it's often because it's well, it's
always because of the way that they
speak. You're one of the people that has
extremely high retention, because of the
way that you speak. And Morgan Hel's
another one. And I I was watching Morgan
Hel the way he delivers his message. And
he basically always starts it with a
curiosity gap or a promise. And Mr.
Beast does the same. Mr. Beast's videos
don't start with, "Hey, uh, hi, I'm Mr.
Beast. Welcome back to my channel." He
immediately shouts a promise in your
face which is like I've put a thousand
people in that circle. The last one to
leave wins $5 million. And immediately
there's this curiosity gap like I want
to see the answer. And I just noticed
that in great speakers even on stage
when I go to conferences is they they
leave me hanging on something that they
haven't yet given me.
>> Somebody once when I began doing
keynotes or speaking there was this
other speaker and he said to me, he's
like, "Let me give you some advice,
kid." I was like, "Sure, I'll take it."
I didn't mind. and and he hadn't heard
me speak yet. It was just he was just
trying to impart wisdom. He said, "Just
because you're an expert doesn't mean
you're interesting
and it always stuck with me because
there's people, Stephen, that are
probably smarter than I am, have more
years or time or experience in the US
Secret Service that I do.
There's always somebody that's better,
smarter, faster, whatever.
But a big part of what plays a role is
how you present and how are you sharing
that information and are you doing an
effective job,
right? It's not about let me tell you
how smart I think I am.
It's about being able to relay that
information in a way that people can
understand and that's digestible. It's
how they it's how they process
information. Do you know I even learned
to do that in the interview room when I
would morandize people. I was trying to
assess where they were linguistically
and so I could speak to them in a way
that resonated with them. So one of the
things I would do is I had Miranda. I
never read Miranda verbally. The Miranda
writes in the United States before you
interview anybody and I would do this
whether they were an applicant, a
suspect, a a victim cuz you never knew
how things were going to go. I would
Miranda everybody. You know, you have
the right to remain silent, all that. So
I had a piece of paper and I would hand
it to them and I would say please read
each sentence out loud. So the first
sentence would be and I would have them
hold it. They would read out loud loud.
I have the right to remain silent and I
would ask them do you understand that? I
wouldn't read it. They would say it. I
would listen to them and I wanted to
hear their speech how they you know like
how how it resonated the their language
skills. Then they would sign it. Then
we'd finish it and then I would ask them
questions that I already knew the answer
to. What's your name? What's your date
of birth? Where are you from? I had all
of this. I did not need it. But it was a
way for me to assess their speech. And
then based on that, I would meet them
where they were.
I'm not going to speak the way I
normally speak. I'm going to adapt my
speech. There's adaptability in a way
that's going to resonate with you the
most. So using big hefty words, speaking
super fast, especially I'm from New
York, like I said, I'd go to the south,
they speak slower. I would have to slow
down so I could meet them where they
were. So I could speak to them in a way
that resonated with them. It's the
listener that matters. I am irrelevant.
We don't matter. They matter. Where is
that person? I'm going to meet you
there. Also, even when you write, do one
of the things I learned in journalism
school, New York Times writes at an
eighth grade level
to keep it simple so that people can
actually finish the article or even a
book. My book, do you know how hard it
was to write the book? Not for the
content, but to write it in a way that
was easy for people to read, not for
people to read a chapter and be like, I
need a nap.
>> Because it's a co it's too cognitive
heavy. You want to do things that people
can absorb and they don't have to use
all their all their brain power. If it's
too hard, if we speak too smart or too
complicated, people get tired. So the
delivery mechanism in which you give
information really matters. You're
talking so that they can understand, so
that it's not hard for them to follow
you, so that they can follow you easily,
they can stay connected with you, and
they're not needing a nap after you're
done.
You speak for them, not for you.
>> A lot of people, especially I think
podcasters, sometimes
like to use bigger words because it
makes you sound smarter.
>> The research shows that actually people
see you as less competent.
When you use simpler words and you get
to the point and you you use less words
in the vocabulary, it actually shows
that you're deemed as more competent,
more confident, and more trustworthy. I
realized this a couple of years ago when
we I was running my New York office for
my old company. And uh there was this
young young lady in the team who I'll
call my name Sarah. I'll call her Sarah.
And Sarah in meetings would um when we
were doing like creative brainstorms for
clients. We had Uber was a client. I
remember being sat in the Uber
brainstorm. Um she would kind of think
out loud. And so she would say, "What
about if we did, I don't know, maybe we
could do something like um maybe we
could do like a pop-up and then we
could" and she was thinking out loud.
And then there was this other guy who I
can name called Cah Katy. He's a friend
of mine still to this day. And he would
never speak. But the minute he started
speaking, it was like the the room fell
silent because he spoke so infrequently.
We all knew that he was taking the time
to think about what he was saying and
what he was saying was about to be
really really valuable. And I would
witness with Sarah people literally cut
her off. They would even be before she
had said a word, like the first two
words out of her mouth, they would
immediately assume that it was not worth
paying attention to because she had
developed what I would later call a bad
contribution score, which is kind of
like your credit score, but you hurt it
when you contribute beyond value, if
that makes sense.
>> Yeah. Well, she's not. You notice she's
so engrossed. And it's not to make to
throw, you know, judgment at her, but
that's what happens when you're so
engrossed in what you're thinking that
you lose you lose sight of there's 10
other people in this room.
And
this is when if you're going to open
your mouth, open your mouth. Use your
pauses, use your silences so that you
can make sure your message is impactful
and you're not running through, you
know, you're not vomiting everything
out, which also makes you look nervous
and lacking confidence. But if you're
going to speak, then
command what you say. Speak with
conviction and don't waste people's
time.
>> You can think of people in your life,
right? If you think about all the people
you work with, there's ones that overt
talk and there's ones that definitely
under talk and then there's ones that
like hit the balance just right. And
what is the Can you like tell me about
these people and how and if that's even
true what I just said?
>> It is true. I think it depends who it
is. If it's someone I'm working with,
I'm always kind of like, can we just,
you know, in my head I'm like, land the
plane, land the plane. Like I just I
don't I have to have like 10 more
conversations like these. It's not to be
mean, you know, but as you go higher up
or as you're doing more, you have less
empathy. Ironically, it's not because
you become meaner. It's just I I don't
have the ability. And
>> can I'm going to can I ask you a
question actually?
>> Sure.
>> Do you tend to draw people that want to
work with you who think they see the
persona Steven here
>> and you're you're guiding people, you're
helping people, you're in some way
mentoring people. Do you find that
people want to come to work for you
because they think you will do that for
them? Do you tend to draw those
personalities?
>> Of course.
>> How do you know you have that?
>> This is a good question. Usually in the
interview process, their orientation
towards why they're here will be too
much about Steve, about too much about
me. And it'll be highlighted when they
meet my executives, my team, my chief of
staff, my CEOs, whatever. They'll say,
they'll always come to me and say, I
think this one's a little bit too
interested in you and not the role. And
so when I get to meet this person, I'll
ask them a very simple question, which
is explain to me exactly why this job
appealed to you. And they should be able
and in that moment they all their
answers should be about the work at
hand, not I read your book and I thought
loved your p, you know, it should never
be that because as you know from working
with very interesting people, that stuff
will fade. And when we go into the
trenches, it won't matter whether you
liked my book. like we're here to do
work and you have to like love the work.
You have it has to be the the work has
to be the thing you're thinking about in
the shower. Not not my podcast. And if
that if that's the case, then you you'll
be fine here.
>> When I did the hiring for the US Secret
Service, I did the polygraphs. Now, I
know you can't polygraph people, but
they would we would polygraph people.
So, I was like the last line of defense.
They'd go through the whole hiring
process, right? Interviews, um panel
interviews, exams, there's, you know, uh
tests you would have to take. Anyway, so
you pass all this stuff, right? And then
you get to me. And so I was kind of the
last line of defense. And one of the
things I would ask them during the
interview, I would ask them kind of like
what you said, why do you want to be a
US Secret Service special agent? And I'd
typically get two types of answers. Oh,
I think it'd be really interesting
challenge. I want to see if I can do it.
You know, it would be really, you know,
I I want to see what, you know, if I'm
able to do it. And then the other answer
I would get typically would be, you
know, I want to serve my country. I want
to help protect people. I want to do
something bigger than me. Do you know
who made it through the hiring process?
These guys. These guys who are I, me, I
want to learn. I want to challenge. I
want to see I can do it. Because they
were so selffocused. They they they not
only were they not making it through the
hiring process, they wouldn't make it
through training.
>> Yeah.
Because these guys were focused on the
bigger thing, the role,
>> and then these guys were focused on
themselves, what they could get out of
it. So when people are interviewing with
you, what can they get out of it? I get
to be around Steven.
Me, me, me. There it is.
>> Yeah.
This is also just a really good piece of
advice for what to aim at in your life,
which is not to aim at the labels, the
flashy things, the the ephemeral, the
things that will fade after a week, a
month. Actually, this goes back to what
a problem my friend has with he goes for
people that look really good on the
outside. That's part of the reason he's
he's still single. He really cares about
what it looks like. And I remember one
day him saying to me, you know, I've
just started dating this girl, Steven,
but I'm not sure because, you know, I
just think if I walked into a restaurant
with her on my arm, then I I just don't
know how it would look. And I remember
thinking to him, bro, you're so like if
that's what you you care about,
you are you're going to struggle. And
people care too much about how it looks.
>> How they look.
>> How the job makes them look. How the
situation makes them look.
>> Yes. Yes. Although I will say to my
husband sometimes I'm like, "You're
lucky you're hot." When we fight, you're
lucky you're a good-looking hot man. Cuz
I don't know if we would have survived.
So there's moments, Stephen. Truth be
told, I'm looking I'm like, "You're
lucky you're a good-looking man.
Otherwise, I don't know." So the there's
moments where that'll save the
relationship. But I digress. I forgot
what you asked me because I took you in
a different direction because I was
really just curious to see, you know,
because I would see it with like high
presidents and I would see it with
certain people and I experienced it
myself too. Sometimes you get this
>> Yeah.
>> And I would think you would get it a lot
and that's a really tough thing I would
think.
>> I would say though some people that have
been extremely successful in my company,
they were also big followers of the
show. I'm thinking of you, Cristiana.
Cristiana, who is our chief revenue
officer, she told me she's listened to
every episode ever. Actually, in her
application, she used um in the subject
line like chapter 19 of my book. And
then in the email, there was several
things that I'd written in my books.
She's an unbelievable performer because
actually her career and her life and her
passion is also the work. So it can be
both, but it can't be just
as you said, it can't just be, oh, I
just want to see what the challenge is
like. It, you know what I mean? It can't
just be an surface level. Any Is there
anything else that that is really
pertinent on the point of, you know,
that guy backstage that said to you that
gave you that advice, which was kind of
a little bit patronizing. It sounded
like that. You said it wasn't, but it
kind of
>> it didn't take it like that. But I'm
also
I also don't get easily offended. To me,
I looked at it like like you have to
really say something pretty offensive to
me to be offended. So, I I think I think
my offensive level is probably my
tolerance is higher than others.
>> Is that a good thing?
>> Yes. Because
in the job that I came from, you
couldn't get you just couldn't get
impacted with people
as easy. Like, you have to think of it
this way. Like, it would be something
stupid, Stephen. Like I probably here in
New York once, President Barack Obama,
he went out to dinner and I had to tell
somebody standing by the restaurant,
"Ma'am, you know, sir, could you please
could just cross the street and stand
there cuz we had to clear the area and
people lose their minds. You're
violating my rights." Phones come out.
They're yelling at you in your face.
Now, the New York me or the the the EVE
me wants to just like punch him in the
throat, go across the street. Like, I
don't I don't have time for this. She
can't do that. So when you you have a
job where people
dislike you because you're law
enforcement
and they're in your face and when you're
telling them to do something they
automatically you have something called
reactants. Nobody likes to be told
anything that nobody likes to feel like
they don't have control over their
lives. So they have reactants which
means immediately they're going to push
back. A really good example is COVID
people losing their minds, you know,
when they were forced to wear masks. And
a big reason it wasn't really the mask.
It was that they felt that they had no
autonomy. You're telling me what I have
to do and I feel like I have no control.
So in law enforcement, you're typically
dealing with this often where you can't
offer people a choice. Typically, it's I
need you to do this. So when you have
people really escalating and getting in
your face and in many situations wanting
an altercation, they want to put on you,
they want to put on YouTube, they want
to put on social media, you have to
manage yourself. Also, in my mind, I'm
like, you're not going to get that from
me. So, you do have a higher threshold
to tolerate a lot more nonsense. So, if
I was someone who was really
disrespecting you when you were doing
your job and I was shouting in your
face, you told me to get across the
street and I started cussing you out and
being very personal and trying to sort
of exacerbate the situation. What would
be going through your head at that exact
moment? I'm now screaming in your face.
I've got my phone out. I'm telling you,
you're live on Instagram.
What what's what is actually going
through your head versus what you're
displaying externally? What I would say
is, "Ma'am or sir," whoever it was, I
was like, "I appreciate you're
frustrated. However, I'm not able to
have you stand here. Could you please go
across the street?"
>> And what's going on up here?
>> How many times I'm going to say this
before I force this person across the
street before I put handcuffs on them?
That's what's happening in my head. So,
in my head, I am doing mathematical
equation. How many chances do I give
this person before I throw on handcuffs?
Have you ever had someone insult you
>> in a really vicious just like horrible
way?
>> Dits, dummy, Barbie, you know,
>> and does does it offend in inside even
if you don't show it?
>> I don't want to say you get used to it,
but you don't take it personally cuz
they don't know me. Also, when you're in
law enforcement, you're
you're seeing people at their worst. You
are seeing the worst of humanity. That
is one of the toughest jobs even when
even with military a military they go to
war war that's atrocious but you go you
do your tour and you're out and then
maybe you go back but you get reprieve
law enforcement you're doing this for
your entire career every single day you
are seeing the worst in humanity people
are lying to you they're um committing
crimes like you really could lose a lot
of faith you really could become really
cynical actually a common trait in law
enforcement so you have to be really
careful to not become overly cynical cuz
you're seeing the worst of people and
they're also bringing out their worst
behavior. For whatever reason, people
are not their best the best version of
themselves. And again, you're also
typically not dealing with the good
citizen. You're dealing with people who
are consistently com committing crimes.
If you look at crime in general, the
vast majority of crime, it's committed
by the same group of people. And the
majority of arrests, if you look at the
arrests, they're misdemeanors, meaning
driving while intoxicated. They're
smaller things. Felonies, really serious
crimes. These are people who typically
violate the law consistently. So when
there this is happening, I we would
memorize uh what the US Secret Service
did is they taught us to fight with
facts. I fight with facts. So, we
actually memorized the title codes like
18 title 18 USC was it 3056 that gave me
the right to um do what I needed to do
to secure and protect the president of
the United States. And if you were
interfering with that, then the law gave
me the right to arrest you if I needed
to. I didn't want to arrest anybody. I
didn't care. But the law gave me that
right cuz now you're impeding in my
ability to do my job. So, one of the
things I would do is I would say,
"Ma'am, uh, you are right now impeding
with title 18 3056." And I would say the
title of what it was, which says that I
have to do X, Y, and Z. So, here's the
thing. I don't want to arrest you, but
you do need to move across the street.
You can move across the street and I can
get somebody somebody to come talk to
you or, you know, it's going to
escalate. It's up to you. Most people,
Stephen, most listen, but a lot of
people like theatrics.
>> You said it's up to you. That's giving
them an element of control, which is
good.
>> It's up to me. Look, at the end, they
have to do it because I have to do my
job, right? But the majority of time,
>> but you've given them the choice because
you've said you can either scrape or
this.
>> Yes. But sometimes you have to repeat it
like 15 times to people before you
actually do it. Here's the thing. Once
you put hands on people, the last thing
you want to do is put hands on people.
The minute you put hands on people,
>> everything breaks bad. They're gonna
freak out. Somebody's gonna get hurt.
They're gonna It's It's not a good
thing. The majority of people I would
arrest after I would arrest them, I'd
have to take them to the hospital. Not
because I did anything to hurt them, but
my heart hurts. I'm stressed. I have I
don't know what's happening. I have a
headache. I don't want them to die on
me. And the majority of the time, I
would take them to the hospital or they
were faking it. I've had people fake
heart attacks cuz they thought I'd feel
bad and take the cuffs off. And I'm
like, "Okay, are you having a heart
attack? Let me put the cuffs on. We're
going straight to the hospital." And I
would take them to the hospital. So
there's a lot of tactics people would
use to also get you to stop.
Manipulators, which people can do the
average person, not in this way, but
ways people can manipulate you to stop
whatever it is you're doing. Let's say
you're trying to find out the truth of
something or you're in you're trying to
get to you're asking questions and the
person doesn't like it, they may start
crying. People would cry when I would
arrest them as a way for me to feel
sorry to stop. So often people will use
things to get you to feel bad, to leave
them alone. Let's say you're going to
fire somebody because for something they
did and you're asking them questions and
they start crying in the office instead
of asking the questions, right? That's a
way to deflect, to get you to feel bad,
to stop your line of fire of questions
to get you to stop. Very common. Very
common. Crying. It's a manipulation
tactic. And there's other things people
can do. So people will use certain
things to get you to stop what you're
doing. And sometimes people fall fall
for it or they'll say things to you,
you're only doing this to me because I'm
a woman or because I'm this. And those
sometimes, not that they're not true,
but a lot of times it can be used as
manipulators to get you to back off.
>> In that scenario, you're being met with
emotion. And it appears that you're
returning logic because you're talking
about the title code
>> and you could, I guess, return emotion,
but it
>> No, no, you own your emotion. Nobody
should provoke you. Nobody.
You're Steven Bartlett, dire CEO. Nobody
provokes you. You own your response. You
can go in that back room and [__]
somebody to, you know, like do it in the
mirror, but nobody nobody owns that.
Nobody should take that from you. Who
are they to take that from from you? And
who are you to surrender it? That's the
way I look at it. You're going to be
dealing with people. People are
revolving door of all their stuff. And I
do think we see a really heightened
emotional state with people. Like people
can't not post stuff on social media.
Like everybody has to give their opinion
on something. And sometimes I'm like
stop. Like everybody doesn't need to
know what you're thinking. Like stop
posting. We put so much noise out there
cuz we think people care. They don't.
It's like even though when you speak I
look at social media the same way. What
are you contributing to the world? Are
you post it? If you're not, don't post
it. Don't put more noise. your
contribution points even in your posts
and the things you share with the world.
But I look at it this way. You're at a
point I understand when you're young up
until you're 25 years old. I give you a
free pass cuz that frontal cortex of
yours is not developed. You're not
emotionally regulated. But then there
comes a point where you have to own your
emotions. I had to because I would lose
my job.
>> How do I become unprovokable?
>> Is there a way or is it just by
repetitions?
>> It's repetition. If enough people get in
your face over time, you learn to manage
your emotions. But if you spent the
whole time avoiding people getting in
your face, I'm not telling you to go
look for problems, but you shouldn't go
out of your your your way to avoid
conflict to such a degree where you're
willing to do anything and whatever
because you don't want conflict. I don't
want conflict. I don't like it. But if
it shows up in my face, I'm going to be
there. Yeah. You can also handle people
non-emotionally with facts. Okay.
Earlier on you said X, Y, and Z. Could
you explain that to me? Even sometimes
when some people tell me, you know, I
feel like I'm not valued at work or I
think my boss doesn't care about me or I
believe this and I want to go talk to my
boss. And I'll tell them, I'm fine with
you going talk to your boss. When they
would ask me for advice, cuz I never
give unsolicited advice. I'm fine with
you going in there, but do not go in
there and say, I think, I feel, I
believe. Go in there and say, "Hey, I
did this project. I spent x amount of
hours on it and I made x amount of money
for this company. You know, I I'd like
to put in for a higher position or I'd
like to put in for this other project.
Go in with the facts.
Facts win. Because it's harder for
people to refute facts. I think I should
get this. Well, I think you shouldn't. I
believe, you know, you're treating me
this way. Well, I believe I'm not. But
if you say, "We had this meeting. During
this meeting, you said this and this.
Could you explain that to me? Because it
seemed as though you didn't trust me in
that meeting or it seemed as though you
were upset with me in that meeting, but
I'm telling you specifically what I did.
So, I'm bringing it back to that
specific fact moment versus now I feel
that you treat me this way. It's so
vague and ambiguous. When you go in with
very specific things, that's harder to
argue. You want to not that I want you
to win an argument, but you really want
to make your point and get results. Be
very clear and specific. And you know
what? If you're nervous, write it down.
I always tell people, write your stuff
down. Walk into a meeting if you're
having it with your supervisor. Sir,
boss, I don't know if people say sir
anymore. I guess I have to say sir. Sir,
I just I took some notes down, so I hope
you don't mind. I'm just going to look
through it just to make sure I I I speak
clearly and I don't make any mistakes
and then go through the points. I
actually asked a colleague of mine who
was in a similar situation who wanted to
have a conversation with me and their
slightly younger colleague of mine um in
their early 20ies. They said they wanted
to speak to me about something and
my advice to them was actually to write
it down in a memo as if you were writing
a story cuz I love narrative memos. And
I did that because I wanted them to
properly think about what they wanted to
say because I knew what would happen is
they'd come in, they'd start sort of
like falling over their words a little
bit. They might not not fully give me
all the context. And I often do that
now, which is in all my meetings um that
we do. We kind of stole this from Jeff
Bezos Amazon is I'll have someone write
it into even if it's a two-page memo
which says like this is the situation.
This is why I'm bringing you this thing
in this meeting. This is my proposed
solution. this is the decision I need
you know super super clear because in
business you often find what you know
whe you have two kind of sides of things
either someone walks in and freestyles
with their voice and they stumble in the
the moment they don't get things out
properly or someone comes in with like a
100page PowerPoint presentation which is
like vague pictures of things and bullet
points and I hate a [__] bullet point
because a bullet point is open to
interpretation so is a picture whereas
these narrative memos which is what
Amazon and Jeff Bezos figured out they
leave no room for ambig iguity and all
the context is there and actually
sometimes it actually means that they
can just send it in in an email
>> and then you don't have to talk to
>> and then I don't have to do the hour and
a half.
>> Dude, it's funny you say that. When I
did cases I would always ask and again
not because I knew to do this. I was
trained to do this but really good
interview is get people to write not a
memo but a statement
>> before you even interview them you know
and if it was like the date of the crime
for example tell me what you did from
the time you woke up on this date till
the time you went to sleep and it would
be a memo
>> of what they did that day or tell me
what you know about blah blah blah blah
and I would read those statements and I
would know often who was my suspect who
wasn't I had one case where baby was a
few months
baby had a broken arm and it was between
the dad and the nanny that police were
looking at and police weren't sure which
one it was. We think it's either the
nanny or their dad. Now, in a criminal
case, you always want to talk to the the
most likely suspect. You don't build
your way up. I go to the person who I
likely think did it. I'm going straight
to the person, right? I don't want to go
to the person I think maybe did it and
then build my way there. I want the one
I want the person that I truly believe
is my suspect, my offender. So, I get
the statements and I read them both. I
read dad's and I read nanny's. I read
dad's and I'm like, it's not dad. I knew
from the statement it wasn't dad. I read
nanny's.
And I knew right away after I read nanny
st statement, she did it. Now, you're
going to say, how did you know? The
nanny opened up her statement by telling
me about her morning, how frustrated it
was, how she was running late. She had
two little kids of her own. She was
trying to get them out. She was a single
mom. She was stressed out. Then she
shows up to work to um take care of this
baby. The baby's fussing. The baby's
crying. I did this. It didn't work. I
did that. It didn't work. So, as she's
telling me the story, she's telling me
how hard her day was. And then she turns
into how frustrated she was with this
baby. I did everything I could to get
this baby to stop crying. I think the
baby was is either three or six months
old. I'm just I can't remember. And the
baby was this and the baby was that. And
then she gets to a part where it says,
"Then I gave the baby Tylenol and it
went quiet."
And I was like, "There it is." That's
when she broke the baby's arm.
Who says I gave the baby Tylenol and it
went quiet? In that moment, her language
had changed so much. I was like, that's
the moment she snapped that baby's arm
and the baby passed out from the pain.
And so when I get the statement, I call
I call up the the law enforcement entity
was the state police cuz they were the
ones that asked me to come up and I
said, "I want to talk to nanny, not to
dad." And sure enough, nanny comes in.
Hour and a half later, I had a
confession. I didn't even have to give
her a polygraph. What was interesting is
in her statement, it sounded like she
was actually self-justifying her
behavior.
>> She was. She absolutely was.
>> I was reading about this thing called
cognitive dissonance that you just
mentioned and this idea that we don't
like the the gap between the way we're
behaving and who we think we are or want
to be. And when I think about myself and
you know bad habits that I have or bad
habits that my friends have, we all like
justify justify I'm too busy so I
couldn't go to the gym or there was
nothing else that I that I could grab.
So I ate the cookie in the mini bar.
Like we have to find a way to justify
it.
And then some of us I think we like
build our lives around kind of believing
our own justifications.
>> Of course we do. and then we're trapped
because in the presence of these crazy
justifications, what we're doing makes
sense and it's okay.
>> I think sometimes it's I'm not telling
people to feel permanently bad for what
they do cuz you don't want to, like we
said, you don't want to live in the past
and beat yourself up and man, I messed
up and I did this. You will, but I do
think it's important to say I did
something and I shouldn't have done
this. At least to yourself.
>> How do you stop believing you're in
[__]
>> Well,
>> or do you? I think so. I'm very lucky. I
have a husband who makes sure that I
don't.
He is um but he's a very steady good
soundboard, but he's also a former
special agent both in US Secret Service
and Homeland Security and he was SWAT.
So, this is a super steady person. Lost
his father when he was young. I'm only
sharing this cuz you're asking. I guess
what I'm saying is so I have someone in
my very inner circle who will tell me,
"Hey,
chucklehead, you might want to think
this through." He may not say it like
that, but he will call me out on things.
People that
care about you will typically call
things out on you. Um, now there's ways
to do it and ways not to do it. And
there's maybe times where I'm not really
keen on the way he does it. But because
I he has good contribution points, good
credibility with me, I know if he's
saying something that there's validity
to it. If he's going to pause and say,
"Hey, I would like you to think about
this." It's coming from somewhere. So,
he's built enough trust, I've built
enough trust to know that he does that.
Now, if you have someone who's always
critiquing you, because that does exist.
everything you do is wrong, then that
person's not going to, you know, they're
not going to resonate. So, I think
having people that actually call you out
on your stuff or help point it out that
can do it and that you also have to be
okay with listening it. So, I'm mature
enough and I hope to be I try to be
humble enough to say, "Look, tell me the
truth." Or there are times too where as
much as a strategic decision maker I
like to be there's times where Stephen
I'm seeing red. Someone will do
something and all I see is red and I
will go to someone that can either
either I trust or can help me make a
decision with something and I'll say,
you know, it could be my agent, it could
be a work thing. I'm like, "Hey, this
happened. I'm seeing red. How would you
handle this scenario because I'm in an
emotional state and I'm not going to
make a good decision. Can I have your
guidance advice? And so I will go to
people I trust who will guide me. So
that's the biggest thing I think. Call
yourself out on your [__] The
minute you start getting emotional and I
think there's a pattern, if everything
offends you, if everything upsets you,
if you're getting triggered all the
time, if you're upset with people or
angry with people or you feel the need
to let everybody know through social
media or posts or texting, you know
what's going on in your life. I want you
to pause and say, why am I doing all of
this? What is going on within me that I
am feeling that I need to that I see the
world this way? It always starts with
us. It's always within. So, I think
that's the thing. It's like what's going
on within me? And if you have the
ability and the maturity and you're in a
space where you can do that and you want
that, you can call yourself out on your
own [__]
>> Do you have a lot of friends?
>> No.
I did growing up. I was my social
butterfly.
Um, no. And just so you know, the
research shows, Stephen, that as we age,
our inner circle gets smaller and
smaller and smaller. I have a lot of
acquaintances
and I'm friendly with a lot of people
and I network with a lot of people and I
like these people. But when I hear the
word friends, I could count my friends
on one hand. Do you have a lot of
friends? M
>> you might cuz you might still be at an
age where you're kind of in the middle
there.
>> For me, I've got like five best friends,
but then I've got all these other people
who I've become friends with
predominantly through work.
>> Okay. So, I define friends as people you
would give pretty much unconditional
trust to.
Unconditional. I trust you. I'll tell
you what,
>> more or less.
>> How many would those be?
>> I reckon 10.
>> 10. Unconditional trust. Okay.
>> Jack's one of them. Jack over there is
one of them. Known him for 7 years now.
There's nothing I wouldn't trust him
with.
>> So that would be a legitimate Yes. That
would be a friend.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. Consistency, length of time,
trust, no betrayal.
>> Mhm.
>> That would be a friend.
>> And is this a quality versus quantity
game? Do you think the inner circle?
>> Yeah.
Can Why do you need all those people?
It's it's it's one thing to have
connections and and network and and meet
people and hang out, but who you bring
into that inner circle,
I think, and I would think even for you,
you want to be selective and careful
because you also want to make sure
people if Steven wasn't Steven,
like what quality friends would they
still be? Because sometimes it's also
what the package is and people are drawn
to us and that's okay.
But I guess what I'm saying is it's
quality. Are they generally good
friends? Like if something bad happens
and you're like, "I need your help." And
they're like, "Let me would they be
like, "Let me go get my shovel. Where
are we meeting?"
You know, I think that would be
the gauge of a friend. But I think
sometimes people think a lot of friends
are good and a lot of friends are noise.
You can have acquaintances, but like
your friend is really somebody who
influences you.
I did something at 24 years old that has
had a profound impact on my life. I set
myself the challenge of posting every
single day on my social media channels.
And at the time, I was doing it to grow
my following. But it had this profound
impact on my life and two remarkable
things happened when I did that. I
managed to learn faster because every
single day I'm capturing what is
happening to me and trying to distill it
down into something that I can share
with the world. But more remarkably, it
led me to building a following of many
millions of people. And that's the basis
that I used to launch the Dire of SEO.
And that's why I want to tell you about
our sponsor today, Adobe Express. They
are the platform that I use to make all
the posts across my LinkedIn and across
my Instagram. It's a couple of clicks
and you don't need to be an expert. And
that is why I love using it because I'm
not an expert in graphic design. It's
accessible to use for all of us, even if
we don't have the technical prowess to
design great things. So, if you want to
start compounding both your reach and
your knowledge, like I did at 24 years
old, then head to adobe./stephven.
y/stephven
and get started with Adobe Express.
That's adobe./stephven.
I've watched so many entrepreneurs treat
sales like a performance problem. When
it's often down to visibility because
when you can't see what's happening in
your pipeline, what stage each
conversation is at, what's stalled,
what's moving, you can't improve
anything and you can't close the deal.
Our sponsor, Pipe Drive, is the number
one CRM tool for small to medium
businesses. Not just a contact list, but
an actual system that shows your entire
sales process end to end, everything
that's live, what's lagging, and the
steps you need to take next. All of your
teams can move smarter and faster. Teams
using Pipe Drive are on average closing
three times more deals than those that
aren't. It's the first CRM made by
salespeople for salespeople that over
100,000 companies around the world rely
on, including my team who absolutely
love it. Give Piperive a try today by
visiting piperive.com/ceo
and you can get up and running in a
couple of minutes with no payment
needed. And if you use this link, you'll
get a 30day free trial. You've used this
term low vibration before.
>> Yeah.
>> What is what is what does that mean to
you to be low vibration?
>> You can think of it this way. Like
there's some pe I think look at low
vibration as when you're around people
and it's just you don't want to be
around them. They make you feel bad. Not
because they said something necessarily
to you, but they're maybe in a victim
mindset. They're always bringing
problems. They're always bringing drama.
Everything is wrong. Nothing is right.
They are low vibration.
>> Can you be low vibration around because
you're low vibration people?
>> Yes. Because you adopt their habits. You
adopt and are influenced by people.
Doesn't matter who you are. You can be
you can be Steven Bartlett, dire CEO. If
you surround yourself with low vibration
people, eventually slowly it's going to
bring down your vibration. It's easier
for if you're up here, let's say higher
vibration. I'm doing really well. I'm
I'm I'm I'm excelling in the way I think
emotionally stable. You you're kind of
doing really well in life and you're up
here and you're around people like down
here and you're thinking, "Oh, I'm going
to help pull this person up, right?" It
is actually easier for them to pull you
down than it is for you to pull people
up. You know, I always say, be careful
who you try to save. Some people will
drown you. It's like when we would do uh
rescue, search and rescue, they would
tell you when you go out in the water,
the most dangerous thing isn't the
water. It's the person who's panicking
in the water who could kill you. Because
as you get closer to them to save them,
what are they doing, Stephen? They're
panicking. They're flailing. Then they
see you. What do they do? They grab on
to you so they can stay afloat. And you
know what they do? They push you down.
You're there to save them. But in their
panic and in their loss and in their
chaos, what do they do? They push you
down. People are the same way just in
relationships. So all I'm saying is I'm
not telling you not to be a person who's
going out there to help others, but be
selective in how you do it and who you
help because then you fall into that
that that space of I'm I'm such a I'm
just trying to be a good person. I'm
trying to do this. I'm trying to do
that. No, you're exposing yourself to
people and environments that are not
good for you and that actually impact
your life negatively. And so it's not on
them. It's also we have a responsibility
to ourselves, Stephen, to make good
decisions on where we go, what
relationships we enter, who we're
dealing with, and what we're doing. We
have a responsibility. So if somebody
screws us over, I get it. Every once in
a while, you come across an [__] and
it happens.
But if it's a consistent thing,
it's also what did I do? What did I
allow myself to do that exposed me to
this volatility that exposed me to this
stuff? It's like crime. If I walk home
every night in a sketchy area with the
the lights are dark and there's no
lighting and I know there's high crime
and it's abandoned area, that choice I'm
making to walk through that neighborhood
versus taking a taxi,
that will make me more likely to be
what? A victim of crime. But if I take a
taxi, I'm less likely to be a victim of
crime. I avoid this bad neighborhood. I
avoid this bad area. I guess what I'm
saying is you also have a
responsibility. We have a responsibility
to navigate the environment we're in and
how we engage with people. And it can't
just be he or she screwed me over. It's
like what decision did you make? It's
not blame, but what decision did you
make that exposed you and made you more
vulnerable to getting screwed over?
Because there would because typically
maybe not all but the majority of times
there are signs that we choose to ignore
or we think everybody's our friend and
we give them unconditional trust and
then something happens and we think why
did that happen? Well, you gave
unconditional trust like it was nothing.
Your trust should be something people
earn. You don't have to tell them you
need to earn my trust. You don't have to
say it but internally it's kind of like
you need to earn this cuz it means
something to give people trust. You
shouldn't you shouldn't just
automatically surrender it to you. So
Jack, what's up Jack? Jack over seven
years earns trust consistently and over
time. And that's why that relationship's
the same way. But you are responsible.
We are each responsible for ourselves.
So if you keep exposing yourself to low
vibration, to chaotic areas, chaotic
people, then you are playing a role in
the problems that you have.
>> We live in a culture though where people
are do complain a lot. They complain
that things aren't fair, that they're
not equal, that they're not, you know,
not being treated like they should be
treated, etc., etc. And there's there's
a lot of that in the the corporate world
>> because it's allowed.
I think it's okay to meet people where
they are sometimes and listen to them. I
think it's valid, but it's also when you
bend so much, you're also doing a
disservice to them because you're
helping make excuses for them. they're
not delivering and it hurts the work
culture and I think you really have to
be careful because a person who comes in
with poor performance can really impact
the rest of the team and I've had it
like I don't have as many as employees
as you have but when I have people that
work with me I'm very aware of how their
vibration comes in and impacts the other
team. I want high performance and if
you're coming in with your low vibration
and your problems and your dramas it
doesn't belong at work. What is the
defining sort of attitude trait of a low
performer? Just if you just had to pick
one, the first thing that comes to mind
that pisses you off.
>> It doesn't piss me off, but when people
start telling me about their personal
affairs,
and it's not that I'm insensitive
person. There's a time and place. So, if
you start telling me about how your
weekend was with your grandmother or
whoever, and I'm sitting there, I'm
like, it's not that I'm insensitive, but
it's
we're at work. Like, I asked you about
something specific, and you're telling
me about this whole story about So,
you're making it about you. And I think
that there's a little bit like, did you
not pause to think like
I'm talking to my supervisor or my boss?
She's super busy. She's expect accepting
expecting something from me. Let me
share it with her. You know, when you do
that to another person, you take from
them all the time. How's that fair to
them?
>> At the start of that, you said they
would come and talk about themselves,
etc. And it reminded me of something you
were talking about in your TED talk
where one of the key ideas is that
you're not that special.
What do you mean when you say you're not
that special?
>> You're not that special is
When we make ourselves so self-important
which in western culture we have it's
very much about the person the identity
of the person you can do anything you
can this it's you you I think that's
great but what happens is when we get so
focused on the singular person and we
forget other people is that we think
that we are so special that it's just us
and then the rest of the world revolves
around us. We're the sun and then
everybody else revolves around us. And
when you think you're special, it's not
that you become a narcissist or anything
like that. That's not how I mean it.
What I mean by that is if I am special,
then what also that says is my problems
are special. My pain is special. What
I'm going through is special. And you
meet those people where it's like, "Oh,
no, no, no. This is this is just
happening to me." That mindset. And when
you are there, you are alone. And
there's nothing that anybody can do to
help you even when they give you advice
because you are the exception to
everything.
When you have that mindset, at least
when I had that mindset, all my problems
faded away. As bad as they were, or
whatever hardship I was going through,
I'm like, I'm not that special. There's
other people going through it far worse
than I am. It doesn't minimize what I'm
going through, but it reorients you.
>> You also talk about walking with
conviction because predators can spot
prey.
>> Yes.
Did you see that through your career
that predators, narcissists would go for
certain people?
>> Yes. But even Yes. But in even in
regular relationships, why do some
people end up with a bad partner all the
time or an abusive partner all the time?
Why
>> don't throw me under the bus, you say?
>> Well, why? Because we tend to draw to us
those folks because we we we look like
we're easier targets. We look like
they're people they can then mold or
manipulate and we we trust too easily.
I'm not telling you not to give trust,
but there are certain traits that they
look at. They're not going to go after
an alpha type personality. You know, it
it's if you look like you're an easy
target, if you look like you're easy to
take down, if you look like you're
easily going to be thrown off,
people see that. They they pay
attention. But if they look like you're
a competitor, if they look like you're a
counter predator, and you don't even
have to be that extreme, but if they
look like, hey, this person's going to
push back, I'm going to be careful. Even
with some people you talk to, I bet
employees, there's some employees that
you're probably more comfortable telling
something to cuz they're more easily
they're easier to tell it to. They're
softer in tone. Maybe they're not going
to push back. They're easier. And then
there are other employees where you're
like, I have to think about how I say
this cuz this person's a a strong alpha
personality. And so I have to approach
them a little bit differently. Now
people are the same way. We give off
cues. We give off vibes. And to some
people we can look like easier targets.
Even in crime, crime, they pick their
targets. They don't want fair fights.
They want I want someone who's going to
go down easy. Kids are the most um
overly abused population. Why? Because
they're kids.
They're the easiest to target. They're
the most vulnerable. Why? So, if I'm
such a strong predator, why am I going
for kids? Or next, elderly. Why am I
going for elderly? Cuz they're easy for
me to conquer. They're easy for me to
take down. Predators are not what you
think they are.
Even if you look at in recent events, if
you look at recent shootings we've had,
when you look at the people that have
carried out some of these shootings,
there was one recently this week with
Charlie Kirk. Look at that shooter. Does
he look like a predator to you? I don't
mean it in a cold way. I just Does he
look it? There was one before that here
in the United States. It was the
Minneapolis school shooting. Did you see
that shooter? Does that look like a
predator to you?
These predators that we envision in our
head that we think are these ruthless,
scaryl looking people. They tend to not
be that. They they themselves are not
strong. They look for weaker targets
because it's easier easier to take out
and manipulate. Predators are not these.
It's not like what you see in the movie.
The movies like you think you're going
to see the scary looking dude. And I'm
not saying you're not going to see that
from time to time. But these people who
do certain things, who take advantage,
they don't look like predators. And you
have to be careful because you
inadvertently attract people who look at
you and think, "I can manage her. I can
do that. I can mold that. I can shape
that.
>> And in the context of work or
relationships, if there's my my boss is
shouting at me and constantly berating
me or my partner is shouting at me and
berating me and I just feel small, I
can't necessarily call for backup. So,
is it as simple as saying my choice I
just should just leave or is there what
if it's a situation where I can't leave?
like it's like family or sometimes in
work, you know, you you have to stay
because you need to pay your bills or
there's, you know, kids involved and I'm
married to this person.
>> So, okay. So, you're saying you cannot
leave?
>> Yeah. If I couldn't leave,
>> I always feel like there's a choice. It
may not be the choice you want to make,
but you always have a choice. Um because
in those scenarios
if you've got let's say and I've had a
lot of people come to me and they're
truly abusive relationships.
There is no advice I can give you to fix
that. That person is just going to abuse
you. Let alone from you assaulting them
back and then now you're having like god
forbid like somebody's dead which does
happen. I I can't fix that. I what I can
do is for a person like that and most
people don't leave abusive
relationships. the the research. I've
talked to a lot of people that work with
abused victims. They find that even even
when they do leave, the vast majority go
back. So, I think that's a scenario. If
you have someone like that in your life,
the best thing you could do for them is
listen and just try to keep them as safe
as you can. I don't think there is
nothing I can do. What are you going to
do? Get a gun and then what? You're
going to use it? People, I think, Effie,
they they they almost want you to help
them stay in that situation, but change
the situation.
>> No, change the person. It's the iceberg
we talked about. They're not accepting
the truth of who they have in front of
them. We don't accept the truth. I have
this person and this person is horrible
to me. They're abusive to me. They're
vile to me. And I think if I could just
get them to not be like that, everything
would be okay. Okay? Of course it would.
But that's not the truth. If you're not
living in truth, you have somebody who's
horrible to you. Now, if it's an
intimate personal relationship, like a
companion, that's a big thing because
you live with that person, there's no
getting away from them. They're
typically like if you have a companion
or you get married, like you're what?
Typically, unless you divorce, you're
tied to that person. That's really
rough. Now, let's say it's a parent or a
kid, cuz kids can be just as abusive to
parents. Actually, you know, the
research shows, at least uh here in the
United States, I can't remember the most
recent year I looked at it was the
Uniform Crime Report. I believe it
showed there was more abuse from child
to parent than parent to child
relationship wise. I don't mean a
5-year-old hitting their parent. I mean
it can be an adult child being abusive
to a parent.
>> Mhm.
>> But let's say you have a scenario like
that. Now, there is a point at at some
degree where you can remove yourself
either from the parents house. Let's say
you live with your parents. I get this
sometimes a lot. My parents are like
this or they're like that to me and I'm
like, "How old are you?" If you're over
the age of 18 and you can work, you have
the ability to find ways to remove
yourself. You don't have to cut them out
of your life because sometimes for
people it's really, really hard. They
love their family as messed up as they
are. You can love your family, but you
don't have to like them. Those are two
thing different things. I had a scenario
like that where there was a certain
member of my uh extended family who was
being inappropriate
and um I was the first this was when I
was younger. I was like 18. I said to my
siblings I said I know you guys are
going to stay and tolerate it and you're
going to justify it in your own way.
That's not the approach I'm going to
take. I'm going to cut them off. And
funnily enough, this person treats me
the best. They treat me the best. And I
think it's because they realize that my
tolerance is so low and I'm willing to
walk away and that I don't think family
means that you are bound to this person
for life. I do think you still get to
choose. I think like all relationships
in your life there should be a certain
standard that they have to meet whether
they're family, friends, a stranger or a
team of whoever it is that they have to
meet like a minimum standard and family
for me just don't get a pass on that.
And funnily it meant that my
relationship with I've never fallen out
with this person. The only reason I said
that was because I see them falling out
with everybody else. But and and this
was again before the podcast and
whatever else, like before my my
businesses, I was a broke student, but I
just I for whatever reason, probably
some trauma related reason, felt no
obligation to keep you in my life just
because we have the same genes. I didn't
for me that's like not not a not a high
enough bar. And they treated me so well.
>> That's so interesting because you stood
your ground.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And this is where and this
is where sometimes we talk about the
bad, you know, how we're talking about
the bad things that have happened to us
and we carry them through. It's one
thing to go through something bad and
then you move through it, right? You
moved on. But when you stay in something
bad, so like if you if you're in a
relationship and there's continual
trauma, there's no you can't move
through that cuz you're staying there.
It's not it's not it happened to you and
you're staying in this victim mindset.
It's like you're still in it. M
>> chronic abuse, chronic trauma, chronic
what, however you want to define it. And
abuse can look in differently or
chronically having somebody bully you.
That's really bad. That's really bad.
There's no strategies. There's no
skills. And I would get those folks and
they're like, "Can you help me be more
confident, be more this?" And it would
come out in the discussions I would have
that they had somebody that was in their
life that he was bully bully or abusive.
And I would tell them, there are no
skills I can give you
that can help you
be more confident because I can't I
can't counter that. You have someone who
is consistently
demolishing you. And so you think what
I'm going to tell you to what? Do a
power pose and that's going to fix it.
Do you feel like you have and I don't
know. I'm asking out of humbleness. I
don't know. Do you feel that growing up
you had a lot of people that around you
that were either, you know, had a lot of
issues or struggles and like that it was
something that you had to push through
or climb out to get to where you are?
>> Yeah. I think I think it really only
takes like one person that's close
enough, especially if they're above you
to basically
in my case to make my tolerance level
extremely low. I think people can relate
to that cuz I hear people say this all
the time like it only takes one parent
that did X or one parent that did this
or you know an uncle or an auntie or
whatever that you go I'm going to
tolerate zero of that. So another thing
in my relationship with my partner is
neither of us shout. And I grew up in a
house where shouting was the background
noise of every day. Like from morning
till night. And so with me and my
partner been together for 7 years. We
talk like this. It's not to say we don't
argue or we don't have disagreements. We
don't get upset or whatever. But there's
never shouting because I just have zero
tolerance for that. I would just frankly
in my previous relationship when the
shouting began, I would literally just
disappear from the space and I'd be in
my car driving down the motorway. That
was my response because I just because I
grew up in a house where that was and my
siblings are all the same. None of them
shout or very very calm or very softly
spoken because we grew up in an
environment which was the opposite.
Funny. So,
>> but that's that's interesting too
because it could have gone the other
way.
>> Yeah. And it sometimes does for people.
>> It does.
>> You talked about the abuse. You violence
often comes from violence, but sometimes
like peace comes from violence.
>> That's true. This is also why when you
said earlier that looking back at your
past and trying to figure out what
happened is not necessarily useful
because two kids in the same environment
can turn out entirely different and you
see that across siblings. There's
something interesting you were saying a
second ago about we were talking about
like gradual small exposure therapy to
change your life for the better, moving
the shoes closer to the bed. But then
you also just talked about the gradual
exposure therapy of someone breaching
your boundaries and becoming an abuser
and how it's like it's like they just
every day just move the shoes a little
bit closer to the bed.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> It's interesting. It goes both ways in
that regard. when I, you know, with my
inner circle, like even with people I
work with, if I start I really pay
attention to behavior or if if like this
is something small and I don't know if
you're the same way, but like if if you
work with me or it well you work for me
and I send you an email and you don't
respond till 4 days later, massive red
flag for me. And I won't say anything to
you. I'll wait and then I'll test it out
again with something else and again and
as soon as I see that in my head I'm
like we're done. I may not tell you
anything but I'll find a way to let you
go. So those are certain things because
and that's a little bit like the moving
the shoes closer away from the bed where
you'll see people you'll see I'll see
somebody do something and I'm like is it
a fluke?
>> Mhm.
>> Do they truly miss it or is this kind of
this relaxed attitude? Oh, it's Ebie.
She's so Well, I don't know if they
think I'm nice but you know, after I do
these podcasts, they're like, "Oh, she's
so scary." But but you know, sometimes
people will get too relaxed and
comfortable and so it's in a different
way. And so I'll test it out and when I
see that, I'm like, "No, no, I'm not,
you know, if it's someone I really want
to work with, I may address it." But
sometimes I don't want to say I don't
invest the time and energy and effort.
But sometimes I know I know when to
invest that time, energy, and effort and
when to say no and I pull out.
>> Earlier on we talked about Charlie Kirk
this week. Uh what week are we in? We're
on Sunday. So yeah, this week he was
assassinated um while on a college
campus as part of a tour that he was
doing called Prove Me Wrong where he
went out onto college campuses and
debated his ideas with the college
campus students and a shooter um who has
now been
found and uh I believe is in prison
currently awaiting
>> jail.
>> Jail. Yeah. Their first appearance I
think in court on Tuesday of this week.
um shot him in the neck from several
hundred yards away. As a former Secret
Service agent whose very job was to
ensure that didn't happen to someone, to
ensure that someone didn't assassinate
them, harm them, keep them safe, etc.
What did you think and feel when you you
heard the news?
>> So, I have been covering the Charlie
Kirk assassination in in from the news
perspective. So, you're asking me like
what assessment can I give you as a
former Secret Service? So, I'll give you
something. I'll I'll I'll share with you
what I've been covering and if you have
a a specific question feel free to ask.
>> So here's the thing. This is truly
unique and exceptional and this is why
people calling it a political
assassination, right? It is and it
isn't. Here's the difference. A
president of the United States is a
politician. He's it's understood that
things like this will happen, right? And
he has protection. a political appointee
like a member of Congress corre because
right now members of Congress in the
United States and I think in many parts
of the world are very afraid right now
because their threats have also
increased. So even here in the United
States they're looking to increase the
budget on people of Cong in Congress for
safety and um protection.
It is to some degree understood that
these things will happen over time to
people in who are political elected
figures. Charlie is uniquely different.
He talked about things, but he wasn't a
political figure. Nobody voted for him.
He was honestly He had his own Didn't he
have his own podcast? He had a podcast.
>> He was out there. He spoke. He did
talks. He shared his opinion. So, he's
no different in a sense than you and I
in a sense. And so, what that
assassination means is it is fair game
now on anybody who has a platform.
That's the difference here. So, it's
different. You're not dealing with
presidents now, heads of states or
people in Congress. You're dealing now
with people who if they share an opinion
that you don't like and I perceive it as
a threat, then now I have the ability to
retaliate and take a shot. This is this
is going to open up the door to copycat
because to try to get certain people
like a president of the United States or
a member of Congress or politician or
certain people, those are hard targets.
Those are hard to get. They're secure.
But now this means anybody who's out
there that I don't like and I don't
agree with, I can take that target
and and cause harm to those people.
We're moving into a space now where
everybody is fair game, where I have a
voice. Um, even on social media, I would
actually sit and go through X before I
would go on air just to get the news
updates, see what else was happening.
And I would have to sit and filter
through all the hateful comments people
were writing, everybody to each other.
And then every other five comments was,
I'm getting death threats. People are
threatening me cuz people were
expressing their opinions online and
other people were threatening them.
This means that it means you can go
after anybody. And what I'm not saying I
would like this to happen, but to me
this is a massive red flag because it
means now everybody is extremely
vulnerable. And now we're looking to
targeting people who have shows, who
have platforms, who maybe do the dues,
who share opinions. That is why this is
a bother. This is why people should be
concerned.
>> You said copycats. Is is that something
that you actually saw when you're in the
Secret Service that if one incident
happened it would
>> 100% all it takes is one person to do it
another person to be like oh he can do
it I can do it he executed his mission
I'm not agreeing with the mission but
that shooter was able to do what he
needed to do and he was successful sadly
right so someone else is going to see it
and they're going to get that idea I'm
speaking at a university on Tuesday so
maybe somebody hears something I say on
a podcast they don't like it they might
get that idea
>> but also there's a lot of people out
there that are just not well. I mean,
>> no, they're not well. I'm going to be
very transparent. People are not well.
When So, in the US Secret Service, we
had a a unit. It was called the
Improtective Intelligence Unit. In that
unit is where we would track people who
were presumed to be threats against
people who protected. So, how did they
get on your radar? They would write
letters. They would show up at multiple
events. They would make phone calls,
right? There was ways to do that.
Then you have the introduction of social
media. So now people are more are
they're able to now make threats and say
things from the safety of their own home
and not as afraid. It's it's it's a it's
a it's a more detached way to attack
somebody and now you have to follow
those leads and now there's thousands of
these things that come in and even if
they even hit your radar and so
everyone's in inundated with tracking
people. Now at the time initially
those who were looking to cause harm to
our protectees typically typically had
severe mental health issues and from
time to time it wasn't often the Secret
Service would work with the courts to
involuntarily commit somebody if they
thought they were that much harm.
With social media now the the playing
field has changed. One, it allows people
to say things that they would never say
to your face.
It's allows people now when you absorb
the content online, the majority is very
negative. Even though we're talking
about this event, everything is
typically very ugly online. And so
people escalate. And
we've also noticed that there's a lack
of empathy. we are less empathetic the
more we have exposure to online stuff
because when people text hateful things
it doesn't become as a big of a deal
anymore whereas if somebody said it to
you it's a bigger deal. So there is a
severe
mental
issue with people and there's also when
you look at behavior typically the
things that keep you in check seem to be
a little bit more absent today which
also causes people to behave a little
bit more inappropriately. So like and
this is again just for the research not
based on my personal opinion. Family uh
when you have strong social bonds to
certain structures you're less likely to
cause harm to others. So family is one
one social bond that keeps you kind of
like in place like I'm not going to do
this cuz it would embarrass my family or
hurt my family. Faith or religion,
religious institutions, whatever that
religion is that typically keeps people
kind of steady. uh certain institutions
like having a a strong bond to maybe a
school or certain institutions. There
are certain things that keep you less
likely from behaving this way and we do
see a little bit of an erosion in those
areas and I think that leaks into
people's mental cognitive uh issues. One
of the things that I don't think people
realize as well on when they're on the
internet is that they are in an
algorithm. And the algorithm isn't the
real world, but it's actually just the
things the way that the algorithm works
is it shows you more of the things that
you've expressed interest in before. So
my first sort of 10 years of my career
was working in social media. So all of
the major social platforms, we built one
of the most um disruptive social media
companies at the time. So I have a deep
understanding of how the algorithm
works. In fact, much of our job was to
figure out how to how it works to help
our big clients globally reach more
people. And I think I think about like
my my my my grandfather. My grandfather
will like look at his phone and he'll
think what he's seeing is the world. But
he doesn't know that dwell time is a
huge factor in what he's going to be
shown tomorrow. So if he dwells a little
bit more on a particular post, the
algorithm will go, "Ooh,
Mr. Bartlett, grandfather Bartlett is
interested. So, next time you log in,
we're going to show more of that. And I
I learned this really starkly when one
of my older relatives downloaded Tik Tok
and um
I got like an emergency call from their
partner saying, "You we need your help."
She's downloaded Tik Tok and it's like
making her crazy. Like it's making her
insane because she's seeing now all of
this like vitriol and hate and racist
stuff and she thinks the world is like
that and she's like preparing to
protest. So I had to funnily enough get
her password off her partner and hit
this button in the back end of Tik Tok
which refreshes your algorithm just
wipes out all of your your history and
what I would do is I'd hit that button
every single week and eventually she
stopped using Tik Tok. She found it
boring because it was all now like
XFactor, America's Got Talent videos,
people singing, people dancing and I'd
go on her phone and I'd watch these like
music videos and I'd like like them and
bookmark them and save them because I
knew that that's what she would see next
time she logged in. I know this sounds
crazy, but that's like people don't
realize that what they're seeing is
they're pulling something towards them.
>> And that's how the algorithms work. You
pull towards you what you've been
historically interested in. So if you're
scared about brown people crossing the
the border in dingies,
>> that's all it's going to show you.
>> Pull you more of that stuff and you're
going to start thinking that the world
is X, Y, or Zed. And I Yeah.
>> The other thing too when it shows you
that stuff, it's almost like being how I
said when you're in law enforcement,
you're expo exposed to the worst of
people and you have to be really cared
not to become cynical. Yeah.
>> And one of the ways you're also
protected is cuz you're with other
officers. So there's that team
camaraderie. Everybody helps each other.
So now this is the same way. I'm on my
phone and I am exposed to the worst of
the worst and I'm consuming it. Here's
the difference. I'm by myself.
>> Yeah.
>> And there's nobody there to tether me to
be like, "Hey." So, I look at this stuff
and whatever it is I'm looking at that
I'm afraid because it depends who I am
and what I resonate with. Is it am I
afraid of people crossing the border? Am
I afraid of school shootings? Am I
afraid of this other group? Right? It's
just what and everything is fearbased.
They're tapping into your fear and they
make you afraid this other thing is
going to harm me. And there's no ability
either. I've noticed through social
media, there's no middle ground. It's
either you're all the way over here and
you're all the way over here. and they
feed on people's fears these algorithms.
>> So this is a graph I found which shows
the rise in um
>> school shootings
>> but it's rising it's increasing.
>> One of the things to keep in mind with
this with the school shooting and then
we don't know this based on this one are
these mass shootings or just shootings
in general. So school shooting is I show
up to school I don't like you Stephen I
pull out my gun I shoot you. Technically
that's a school shooting. A mass
shooting is like what we saw the week
before Minneapolis
um and we had that person who showed up
to school and who just started shooting
randomly. So there's two. So when we
look at shootings, let's let's look at
mass. Let's look at mass because if you
look at school shootings one-on-one,
those are a bit different and they have
to do with the city. But if you look at
mass shootings, what can we tell from
mass shootings? So, some of the data
shows us typically um that person tends
to have some kind of association to the
place they go to, the school they went
to. Typically, there's some type of
connection. Usually, at that point where
they commit to shooting, something in
their life happened, right? There's some
type of moment, maybe they broke up with
their partner, they lost their job,
something that offset that moment. Now,
over time, historically, they were
building up to having all these issues.
those issues don't go away, but
something typically happens where they
decide, I'm going to do this. The other
thing is they're planned. So, they
either they sit down and decide to plan
this out and they communicate it to
somebody in some way or they do it
through social media. Another thing
that's really interesting, they happen
typically in the mornings. They
typically handing happen in the
mornings. That person wakes up and says,
"Okay, today's the day I'm going to do
it. I've got my plan in place." And they
execute it earlier on in the day. The
other thing with mass shootings, mass
shootings, not just regular school
shootings, in almost all of them, if
dare I say all of them, all those
individuals had a history of mental
health issues or mental illness. The
other thing too that we see is they had
access to weapons. So they were either
able to go get a weapon, they knew
somebody who had a weapon, and they were
able to get that weapon. One of the
things you said a second ago about um
how this is might become more frequent
sadly had me thinking about why that
would be and what's changed in the
world. And one of the things that has
changed in the world is that media is
now increasingly people. People like us
that have microphones in our kitchens. I
mean we're sat in what used to be my
kitchen recording this conversation. And
once upon a time to reach this many
people you had to be CNN. CNN's a logo.
It's hard to shoot at. But in a world
where much of the media is like
creatorled or hostled media, it's much
easier to have a a target. And I was it
just made me think about I was like, "Oh
yeah, of course, of course." You know,
>> but sometimes to the target you if
you're looking at mass shootings now, if
you're looking at a target like this
Charlie Kirk thing we were talking
about, right? Sometimes it's done
because they want notoriety. It's a big
thing. So, with um this specific
shooting, Charlie Kirk, it's come out
now that the individual was actually on
Discord after he did the shot, talking
about it with other members on Discord,
according to what law enforcement said.
Again, I'm just updating as I know it.
It could change, but he was saying he
was basically talking with other people
and basically saying like he did it and
laughing about it.
>> He was admitting to doing it.
>> Yeah. They were like, "We think you did
this." He's like, "Oh, maybe I did it."
Haha. So there's it's become for
whatever reason in that world
it's seen as a
as an acceptable thing to do
>> a way to create significance in a other
way.
>> Yes. I want attention. I want to create
significance. And also here's the other
thing. What's happening is
we are v villainizing people very
easily. We are calling people names. We
are villainizing them. And it goes back
to social media clips. people are making
even even
things that are our our words are our
most powerful weapon and we don't
realize that when you open your mouth
and you say something and it's what's
happening is people aren't saying
something because most people are
cowards they text it and they post it
because they would never say it to your
face and they post it and then what that
does is all these these negative things
these these attacks we make towards
people become commonplace. So if all I
see is negative stuff, this guy's bad,
this guy's this, this guy's that, I
start to think it's true, and if you
villainize somebody to such a degree, I
think, well, I I'm going to be a hero if
I do something about this. Look what a
horrible person this is. I heard this
quote once, uh, the bigger the hero, the
bigger the villain. I have to make you
such a villain so I can feel like a
hero. And this is what happens when you
villainize people to such a degree. You
create a justification.
I had to do this. Look at how horrible
this human being was. Look at all the
horrible things people are saying about
them. I am doing the right thing. You
just justified it and sold it to
yourself. It's the right thing to do.
But today with social media,
I can't solely blame them because social
media posts and the things people are
creating and putting out there is giving
justification to other people to do this
stuff. Did you say that your husband was
a sniper?
>> He was counter assault.
>> So you and him are both former Secret
Service agents.
>> Correct. So when you see something like
the Charlie Kirk assassination happen,
I'm I'm so curious as to the
conversations in your house about that
because you must be looking at this from
so many different perspectives from like
how that person could have been more
protected, I guess, or how that setup
could have been to mitigate the chances
of something like that happening. So
with Charlie Kirk, there's nothing they
could have done, let alone put snipers
on the rooftop to prevent that or
counter snipers rather.
>> Is that what they would have had to do?
But
>> that's what they would have had to do.
>> Okay.
>> There's no and there's no way anybody
would have done it. That's what I said.
Like if you're a president or person of
Congress or some VIP like that, you're
going to get those assets. A person like
Charlie Kirk like you or me, we're not
going to get those. Who's going to pay
for that? So he had security, but it was
on the ground with him. They're
thinking, their type of security
thinking, and this is private security.
And again, it's not to to knock them
because this is something new. This is
new. They're thinking, I need to protect
Charlie from the guy standing at the
podium asking a question. All these
people pushing up against the rope line
who want to talk to Charlie. So, they're
looking at it from this physical sense.
It's like, it sounds terrible, but it's
almost like a meat shield. I'm the meat
shield between you and them. They're not
thinking high ground problems. Nobody
thought, who would have thought? Maybe a
Secret Service agent would have, but who
would have thought I need to have
snipers on the rooftops or counter
snipers on the rooftops to protect from
a sniper shooting Charlie Kirk?
>> He was wearing a bulletproof vest,
wasn't he? That's what I've been told.
>> I'm not sure. I don't know if it's 100%
true, so I don't want to say yes or no.
>> I say that because in several of the
videos when he's on campus, you see that
there's clearly when he's wearing a
t-shirt, you see
um vest marks here. And I noticed this
many weeks, many many weeks ago.
>> It might be true. Yeah.
>> I just because it's never confirmed. I'm
hesitant. So I don't know. It's very
possible. And uh again, it's not a So a
ve a a vest like that, it's going to
it's going to stop a round from a pistol
typically and maybe a shotgun round.
Rifle rounds usually like our counter
assault teams in the Secret Service,
they actually had an extra ceramic plate
to help prevent those. So you really
need like a different type of exposure
to protect from a rifle round. Now, in
this scenario with him, the shot, you
see it go straight to his neck. And
that's the thing with vests. They
protect you here, right? They protect
your vital organs. And and even when I
would wear mine, it was you lived in the
reality of if I get one to the head, I'm
done.
>> Is that your worst nightmare as a Secret
Service agent that something like that
happens to the person you're protecting?
>> Correct. It is the worst cuz it means
you failed. It's horrible. It's
horrible. I mean, when you would do
protection stuff and the person you were
protecting, whoever it was, cuz you
would protect I've protected everybody
from the president of the United States
to former presidents to first ladies to
their kids. I had Barbara Pierce Bush
who which was President Bush's daughter.
I had her for a while uh to the
secretary of treasury to the secretary
of homeland security. These these are
all USS protectees and foreign heads of
state. When the prime minister of the UK
comes to the United States, they get pro
he gets protection. We we work with the
team because you don't want anybody
getting assassinated on US soil. So you
protect Russia when he comes. Putin you
you got to take a bullet for him too. So
it's more the mission. So but the thing
is it's your responsibility. And so
the whole time I don't want to say
you're on edge, but the whole time
you're on you're aware. Your mind's
moving. Where's my threat? Where's my
threat? Where's my threat? Where's my
problem? And then we would have
sometimes it would have what they call
like wheels up parties, which means your
protectee is up. their wheels up in the
plane and that's when people are just
like
cuz the stress is so high. You're so on.
You're always looking for the threat.
There's no we work in shifts but there's
days where I work 16 17our days 18 hour
days depending on what my assignment
was. It's a lot.
>> What is the most important thing for the
person who clicked on this podcast
because they are looking for something
in their life.
They want to be more effective in the
pursuit of their goals. Whatever their
goals might be, could be professionally,
personally,
could be, you know, maybe they want to
be an entrepreneur or something. What is
the most important thing that we should
have talked about in that regard that we
didn't talk about?
>> I don't know what that to say to that. I
guess what I would say to them is I
think the message is that they're they
are extremely capable and no matter what
society is telling, no matter what's
happened to them, no matter what excuses
people make for them or maybe they make
for themselves, they are much more
capable. And so that maybe when they see
someone like you or myself and they
think, "Oh, look, they've got it all
figured out." It's like we figured it
out the same way everybody else figures
it figures it out. So I think Stephen,
the most important thing is like we're
not that special.
And that means that they can do and
achieve what they want. I think that's
the biggest thing. Like you're
absolutely capable. Even if you feel
inadequate, even if you lack confidence,
even if you've had horrible trauma in
your life, whatever it is, despite all
that, you are absolutely capable. And it
is your choice.
>> Evie, we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest, not
knowing who they're leaving it for.
And the question left for you is, what
brings you the most joy in life? And
what are you the most scared of?
>> The most joy in life is my daughter.
I think the biggest joy in my life is
her because I think that was something I
always wanted to do and to to be a mom.
And so that's the biggest joy. And then
at the same time, it's my biggest fear
because I want her to be well and
healthy and okay. And I think a
consequence of the work I did and even
still do because I'm in media and news
and I I cover crime. I have seen what
humanity can do. I've seen the good in
humanity, but I also have seen the bad
things people can do. And so it's hard
sometimes. I I to you want to protect
your child, but I also know that um I
can't always shield her. I won't be able
to shield her in life from everything.
That's scary.
Thank you, Evie. I was saying to you
before we started recording that
everywhere I go, people come up to me
and they talk about you. In a way,
that's atypical. So, like, you know,
obviously I do a lot of episodes, meet a
lot of great people.
>> Is that really true?
>> I've I swear I don't want to anyone's
life cuz that's probably shouldn't do
that, but I swear to you the amount of
times I've used you as a case study for
what do I use you as a case study for?
for
how important
it is effect like effective
communication is because it because
people come up to me all the time and
mention you. So obviously I then do that
I'm like why are people always
mentioning Evie
>> like I get it you know you're very very
successful you've lived this incredible
career but obviously I speak to lots of
people that are successful but also why
are they always coming up to me and
talking about you and asking you know me
to speak to you again etc. I think it's
all the things you said. I think you
meet them where they are. And I think
you do that in both your communication
style. I think the nuance of your
message is is is spot on while also
being high conviction in certain areas.
And you're relatable. They think you're
you're a badass. And I guess that's it.
It's it's something you learn from doing
these podcasts. You just have certain
people who people just they just click
with that you've been on the show and
even as the host you can't in hindsight
you're trying to like figure it out.
>> Yeah.
>> But there's something
and much of the questions I asked you
today are orientated towards finding out
what that something is. But listen a lot
of it exists in your book as well. You
talk so eloquently and so excessively in
this book bulletproof about the nature
of the human condition and what we need
to understand about the human condition
to be more effective in our lives in our
relationships in our work. So I highly
recommend everybody goes and checks out
this incredible book becoming
bulletproof life lessons from a secret
service agent.
Incredible. Thank you so much.
>> I appreciate you, Stephen.
>> We launched these conversation cards and
they sold out and we launched them again
and they sold out again. We launched
them again and they sold out again
because people love playing these with
colleagues at work, with friends at
home, and also with family. And we've
also got a big audience that use them as
journal prompts. Every single time a
guest comes on the diary of a CEO, they
leave a question for the next guest in
the diary. And I've sat here with some
of the most incredible people in the
world. And they've left all of these
questions in the diary. And I've ranked
them from one to three in terms of the
depth. One being a starter question. And
level three, if you look on the back
here, this is a level three, becomes a
much deeper question that builds even
more connection. If you turn the cards
over and you scan that QR code, you can
see who answered the card and watch the
video of them answering it in real time.
So, if you would like to get your hands
on some of these conversation cards, go
to the diary.com or look at the link in
the description below. This has always
blown my mind a little bit. 53% of you
that listen to this show regularly
haven't yet subscribed to the show. So,
could I ask you for a favor? If you like
the show and you like what we do here
and you want to support us, the free
simple way that you can do just that is
by hitting the subscribe button. And my
commitment to you is if you do that,
then I'll do everything in my power, me
and my team, to make sure that this show
is better for you every single week.
We'll listen to your feedback. We'll
find the guests that you want me to
speak to and we'll continue to do what
we do. Thank you so much.
Heat. Heat. N.
[Music]
Heat. Heat.